*The Free Temple of Zen in [[Chasgard]] houses the headquarters of that strange order of priest-mages, the [[Geowrights of Zen]]. Standing before the Temple is a statue of their founder: Soheila Shraj. Though the Patrician Taher Shraj was the one to negotiate Chasgard's entry into the Republic, it is to his famous aunt Soheila that the city owes its relatively newfound wealth and prominence over the neighboring city of Rihad.* 

*Soheila showed a talent for magic at an early age, and as soon as she reached adulthood made her way to Cheydinhal to train under the Synod. It was her education in Nibenay that set the stage for her to revolutionize industry in her homeland, yet she did not speak fondly of those days as she disagreed with the old tradition-bound faculty over a number of issues****^(1)****. Chief among them was her concern that mages at the time had been limiting themselves by focusing solely on magicka which radiates from the Sun and stars; was it not true that the entire Mundus was shaped by Magic? Were caves not the very veins of Mother Earth, and gems and crystals merely fossilized* spiritus? *What of the rich field of alchemical science, so often sidelined as second-rate by wizards obsessed with raw Aetherial spell-weaving? Thus she proposed an entirely new school of magic, Geomancy, combining elements of the old school of “Alteration” with specialized knowledge of alchemy and enchantment.*

*She failed to attract much attention for her ideas at first, appearing at a handful of lectures around Hammerfell and Cyrodiil before accepting that she had failed as an academic and joining the Resolution of Zenithar. Then, the Silver Plague forced a quarantine of Hubalajad Bay. Lord Shraj turned to the merchant-priests of Iron Zen to solve his economic woes, and Soheila finally had a chance to apply her theories. While they could not find a “cure” for the Plague, their advanced knowledge of the alchemical processes allowed them to develop fine treatments, and the ore-based enchantments they produced, while not as powerful or rechargeable as soul-powered enchantments, proved quite competitive in the much more localized markets of the Plague-economy. The Geowrights had even developed ways of locating ores and minerals underground, helping to establish many mines that the Shraj Family still benefits from to this day. Needless to say, Geomancy was now considered a legitimate form of magic, especially among the people of Hew’s Bay, and Soheila’s objections to varliance dominating arcane academia were validated.* 

*Today, the Geowrights have taken on a more exclusive attitude - perhaps a holdover of the traditionalist Redguard idea that magic should be heavily regulated by religion, or else a consequence of Freehold obsession with aristocratic hierarchy. Though a research institution first and foremost, their techniques are closely guarded, granted only to members who have lived and trained among them for years. Their leaders tend to come from a long line of merchant-nobility going back to the Forebears of old. Yet their domestic influence is undeniable; their ruby-tipped crossbow stunbolts are standard among the Auridon Paladins, and their emerald-based potions are a staple of Freehold medicine.* 

*—*

^(1)*Interesting that Nibenay tries to claim her when the plaque I read says she only studied there for two years.*