**This worn and faded copy of** ***The Scenarist Guild Newsletter*** **is dated 15th Sun’s Height, 4E 381**

*I was recently given the rare opportunity to tour Umbranox Manor, located on a quiet hill in the Gold Coast, on invitation from the Free Hold of Anvil in hopes that it would be the beginning of a greater business relationship between our Guild and the City. The villa was built during the Family’s exile in the aftermath of the Second Great War, when the region was under the boot of Aldmeri tyranny. It has seen many remodels and expansions since then, but maintains the illusion of an ordinary if upper-class Cyro-Abecean home, with the same strong stucco walls and relatively flat red tile roofing found in the city below. None of the curving decadence of the Altmeri style has seeped in, nor have the Umbranoxes transformed their home into a small fort as the Redguard merchant-nobles tend to do.*

*My tour guide, a sharply-dressed Goblin by the name of Eusebio, greeted me by the fountain just past the gates. The old fountain is a shrine unto itself; depicting Dibella the Passionate, mythical patron and ancestor of the Umbranox Family, as she holds up a Lily which spills out water into the pool beneath her marble form. As Eusebio explains it, the fountain represents the Umbranox commitment to always fight for the freedom of the people of Anvil and the Free Holds more generally.* 

*Inside the foyer stands a life-sized statue of Fasil Umbranox, the first Count Umbranox of Anvil. According to my tour guide, it was Count Fasil who transformed Anvil from a lowly fishing port into the Gem of the Gold Coast by driving out the pirates and investing heavily in infrastructure. Regardless of the veracity of these bold claims (in fact, the city had been flourishing since at least the Second Era, records now show), the gilded statue certainly catches the eye and makes a statement about the history and prestige of the Manor’s owners.*

*The east wing of the Manor held the living quarters, which I was not permitted to see, and Patrician Umbranox’s personal office, which I was also not able to see due to his being in a meeting. I was, however, allowed to visit the Umbranox personal library, filled with a variety of topics from naval history to economic theory to notes on Redguard history. The library is one of the younger additions to the manor, built by the Patrician’s wife who happens to be a devout Xarxite. The mirror-make bookcases from Auridon were a stark contrast to the simple Colovian woodwork which made up the rest of the decor.*

*The next stop was the west wing, with its servant quarters, kitchens, and dining room. I asked how the workers are paid, but my question was dismissed by Eusebio as rude. You may be interested to know, however, that the Umbranox Family are strangely patriotic in their insistence upon only eating local cuisine from Anvil City and the surrounding region. Even the banquet table was cut from the local poplar trees. I happened to notice a portrait of Corvus Umbranox in the dining room; quite perplexing to me. I did some research on the Family before the tour, naturally, but all I could turn up about Corvus was that he was an adventurer who tended to disappear from Anvil for years at a time while leaving management of the city to his wife. Eusebio seemed nervous when I pressed him about it: “He was a friend to the common folk, cerum,” was all he would confess in the end. “He paved the way for who House Umbranox is today.”*

*I found that doubtful. When we reached the vineyard in the back, I finally discovered some trace of the modern Umbranox Family’s true founder. It was a bust in Rinaldo Umbranox’s visage, resting on a podium inside a colorful gazebo overlooking the yard. Inscribed was the Umbranox motto, attributed to him:* Divines Bless the Patient. 

*Indeed, Rinaldo Umbranox was always a patient man. He was not supposed to inherit the title of County Anvil, being the youngest of three children. He instead dedicated himself to managing the vineyard and causing minor scandals at noble dinner parties across Tamriel, establishing a reputation as a spoiled drunk with no interest in politics. When a rogue admiral of the Aldmeri Dominion called Ambalor seized control of Anvil and declared independence from the Thalmor in 4E 206, it was no surprise to some that Rinaldo agreed to surrender to the warlord and renounce all claims of nobility even as his elder siblings fled to other parts of Tamriel and swore they would one day return. (The Plague would ensure they never did.)*

*Though I knew much of it already, Eusebio happily recounted the tale of how Rinaldo accepted life under house arrest in this very villa. When the Silver Plague worsened and lawlessness spread over Colovia, “Lord” Ambalor was largely powerless to defend nearby landowners from banditry. It was Rinaldo who had the respect of the locals, who had the connections necessary to quietly settle disputes and offer protections outside the law. I know, though the Goblin servant would not say it openly, that Rinaldo was friends with some of these thieves and brigands, that he brought a strange form of “order” brought about through these connections. Hired thugs would protect some farms, or some bandits would be persuaded to look elsewhere. Rinaldo’s wealth and influence prospered from these connections, and he became a hero to the landowning class. Soon, even the Anvil City Guard was once again in the Umbranox pocket. All under the rogue admiral’s nose.*

*By 4E 230, Lord Ambalor was dead. Eusebio claims the people rose up against him, inspired by the support Rinaldo Umbranox had given them - though the city guard did little to stop the riot. Supposedly, the people demanded Rinaldo be made Count, but he turned them down, insisting that he remain officially nothing more than a simple wine merchant. The Umbranox Family expanded as the Silver Plague died down, offering their “services” far beyond the local city. They laid the groundwork that made it possible for them to become one of the “Six Families” in this time period. Rinaldo would die just twelve years after the “liberation” of his people, and it is said the whole city stopped to mourn.* 

*At the end of the tour, Eusebio thanked me for coming and offered a parting knick-knack: a silver mermaid desk ornament. Apparently considered symbolic of the City itself. He then once more impressed upon me the importance of establishing future business between the Guild and the City of Anvil. I will, of course, leave it up to the readers and the Guildmasters to make that decision.*