The Third of Heathfire, known also as Tales and Tallows in the Iliac Bay, is a day of remembrance and giving tribute to the dead over most of the civilized Tamriel. In some places it is a day of loud public festivals, or of warding off the spirits. In the cities of the Totambu, they pound the drums, explode the alchemical substances, and parade the colorful dragon-serpent made of silk and paper. In Colovia and most of the North-Western parts of the continent, the people are afraid to come out after dark, and cover the doors of their houses with the spirit wards.

In the lands of Nibenay it is a day of quiet communion, memory and respect, and all branches of the extended families come together on that day. More traditional Nibenese and Nords also travel to the actual burial sites and tombs, while Dunmer prefer to hold services at their indoor family shrines. In some cases, as of those lost at sea, the services are held at the Capital Temple of Arkay instead.

The priesthood of Arkay has always been the most pragmatic of the Temple orders - even their titles reflect that, consisting of Apprentices, Journeymen and Masters. While other orders argued theology, and philosophers and wizards tried to trace the relationships between the Divines and the planets, the servants of the Mortal God made sure that the soul of the dying arrived where it wanted to go, while the living remained assured that everything was as it should. The Nordic branches of the priesthood preserved and passed the techniques of embalming from the Dragon Cult times.

Following the massive flood of Dunmer immigrants, the demand for the cremation, traditional ashpit burial and ghost binding far outstripped the ability of the adherents of the failing Tribunal Temple. Willing neither to have the unmourned spirits running amok, nor to deprive the Dunmer citizens of their right to their traditions, the Temple of Arkay in Cheydinhal picked up the study and implementation of the Dunmer practices.

Out of this collaboration, as well as the drastic impact of the massive death toll of the War and Silver Plague, and the advancements of the scientific study of the soul, a new understanding of the Death have been born. The [[Cheydinhal]] [[Temple of Arkay]] holds the belief in multipartite soul, and so separates the soul energy that can be tapped into, the living mutable essence that goes on to Aetherus, and the shell of memories that constitutes the ancestor ghost.

Binding of such memory-ghosts to the mortal remains, temporary or permanent, for the purposes of communion is one of the key services of the Arkayn priesthood, and had earned them the folk name of Bone-Charmers. The ensurance that the living essence would not be held on its way, or the energy would not be tapped into is another one.

Together with the alliance of the Laborer Guilds, the Temple had worked for decades to define the limits between the acceptable use of sentient soul binding and un-allowable necromancy. As per the Elder Council edict from the 16th of Frostfall of 4E397, the only acceptable usage of the 'black soul' binding is for the temporary, structured pentinence in the form of the Bonewalker of the Arkayn Temple. Raised from the worst criminals, traitors, the ones cast out of their families, those undead workers do most of the manual jobs for the Temple, and can be loaned out. As such status is temporary, and doesn't include monetary compensation, it is not necromancy as defined within the Potentate.

*YgM: I may dislike religion and mysticism in general, but I can't forget how it was a priest of Arkay who allowed me to say the last goodbye to Grandmother. She died while I was at sea, you see. And they always don't feel like priests to me, more like surgeons or craftsmen. Much less inclined to proselytize at you, and always so tired, but ready with a supporting word. And they drink like surgeons too.*