Many of you who travel, dear readers, are not doing that only for peaceful reasons. Some are looking to trade weapons, import or export raw materials for them. Some look for mercenaries to hire or want to be hired as such. It may be even that someone is looking for weapon masters and teachers or researching unorthodox strategies and tactics employed in other lands. Whatever your reason, the following text may be useful for you.

Of the armies of the civilized polities, the troops of the [[Kingdom of Wrothgaria and Karth]] are the least uniform. Iliac Knights may look very different from each other, as they flaunt their wealth on silver-, gold-, and even ebony-worked steel, but they go into battle as an orderly troop of sword-and-shield-armed Spellswords. The [[Ra]] of the [[Yokedate]] are known for their ordonnances and regulations. And the [[New Model Legions]] of the Potentate, with their mixed formations of Pikemen and Battlemages, are obviously at the forefront of military innovation.

Not so the troops of Wrothgaria. They look rag-tag enough to equal Snow-Throat militias or even southern pirates. Each of the individual Thanes or Barons - they use the terms interchangeably - is separately responsible for protecting his own land and answering the summons from his liege or the King himself. In each such troop, a Thane, his relatives, and his Qarls are the main fighting force - several heavily armored men and women, more often on horseback than not, with spears, swords, and axes. Old heavy legionnaire armor from the First Great War, thick and reinforced against the Thalmor magic, is still used as a point of pride and legacy. It is often repaired with local iron and worn over a chainmail. Fully locally made armor is much simpler, often made of boiled leather, reinforced with horker bones, hog tusks, and other barbarian adornments. Only the southern baronies are wealthy enough to allow themselves to import modern and well-crafted Iliac, Orsinium or Potentate cuirasses.

The rest of the troop - or the Spear, as Wrothgarians call it - are servants, pages, and even peasants, who are still armed, and serve as skirmishers, scouts, and infantry both mounted and not.

Opinions are divided on whether it is their extreme powerty, or a desire to flaunt their Atmoran blood, but this low-ranking infantry - and in the northernmost baronies sometimes even the thanes themselves - go into battle barefoot and pantless, with only a chainmail shirt or a padded jack over their tunic. Their weapons are of the same cheap and diverse sort - longbows, Snow-Throat crossbows, axes, and very often polearms that are nothing but sharpened peasant tools on long study shafts.

Their troops rarely contain mages, if any. There is a tradition of sending a third son of the family to study magic and theology at the [[Solitude Seminary]], but not all of them are returning to serve their family. And fully ordained priests of the Divines prefer to limit themselves to healing and aid, shunning away from using their magic in combat.