*The topic of magic and magery in the Commonwealth has long been a source of costernation among scholars of the Potentate. Often, many have fallen into the trap of oversimplification and racial essentialization: that among the barbaric and magic-fearing Nords and Orsimer usage of magic is taboo at best, leaving magery to the ever-distrusted Dunmer - and of course, what could the dull, primitive Giants know of the sorcerous arts?*

*Such opinions are, of course, ignorant: of the cleverness and cohesion of Snow-Throat's citizens and of their skills at magic.*

*Now, it is true that the College of Old Winterhold - the primary institution of academia in both Snow-Throat and Greater Wrothgaria - is almost ridiculously conservative, clinging to outdated definitions of the Schools of Magic, quaintly teaching courses in Restoration (their most popular course of study), Enchanting, Alteration, Destruction, Illusion, Conjuration, and Alchemy, whilst treating modern understandings of magic as dangerous and ill-guided, to be carefully and painstakingly examined before utilization. Nonetheless, in spite of - or indeed, because of - this excessive caution, the College and it's alumni have become broadly accepted across Snow-Throat, as academics, consultants of Moots, teachers and engineers. Only rarely do College-trained mages find employment in the militias, leaving that role to common, largely self-trained mages and spellswords.*

*Such mages - the Clever Men, witches, hags, shamans, spellswords, nightblades, witchblades, witch hunters, daedra hunters and more - are profuse in and out of the ranks of the militias, as drifters, hermits, mystics and sellswords, inheritors of the grand traditions of wanderers and recluses that has seen a revival since the Plague Years. While nowhere near as common as the mage-knights of the Iliac or as powerful as the battlemages of our grand nation, these amateurs make up for their lack of might with cleverness, cunning and often shocking brutality, honed by years of skirmishes and battles against sea-giants and Falmer.*

*The arts of Alchemy are the most commonly practiced traditional form of magery by the citizens of the Commonwealth, in conjunction with and often the same as their brewing of alcohols and curing of meats and cheeses. Nirnroot plantations in the Rift have a near-monopoly on Tamrielic nirnroot production, and strange, powerful and exotic ingredients found nowhere else in Tamriel are commonplace, used singly or mixed with strange concoctions. This alchemical cottage industry has in turn allowed the nation's militias to be dangerously well-armed, as the creation of frost, fire, and shock tipped crossbow bolts is perhaps the simplest usage of their skills.*

*Finally - and most embarassingly for the mages of the Potentate - one must consider the practice of Tonal Magic. While elsewhere Tonal manipulation is the realm of theory and conjecture, for the denizens of Snow-Throat it is, quite literally, child's play.  Schooling in the formation and use of Shouts begins almost as soon as children can speak, learning Dovahzul alongside their native tongue. Imitation of their elders comes with internalization as children grow and learn to understand the world around them, simple concepts of ice and fire and wind and more becoming deeply understood and integrated. Few outside of the orders of Dragon Monks ever master even a single full Shout, for doing so takes years of study, but simple, single word Shouts are commonplace, used in everyday life. Fires are lit with a single word, food warmed or cooled, beasts pacified, charges of herders tracked with a single whisper. Men and women imbue their arms with strength and speed to wield scythes at harvest, challenging even the most clever contraptions of smiths, and children race each other with great Shouts of* *"Wuld!"* *to propel themselves recklessly forwards. Such usage makes the people seem truly elemental: it is as if the cold does not truly touch them, striding through swirling snow almost unaffected, standing fast before a charging bull or mammoth, swift and sure as the wind.*

------

*A note, scrawled at the bottom of the page: We get it, Maurius. You're a sympathizer. They aren't* **that** *impressive.*