Found in the notes of the theology student of [[Solitude Seminary]] that returned from the expedition to the southern Wrothgarian Mountains mad, and subsequently disappeared from his cell.

*Each new day is an afterlife, a tree growing from the tombstone of the previous one. Each memory is false, faithless, a skeletal grin under the skin of the beloved face. Each and every religion, each promise, each realm - everything is overrun by the shades of the dead. From the eight, every one is a lifeless, spherical corpse hung in heavens. From the eighty one that followed them, each went to the other side and did not return. From the eighteen, every one of them is eighteen times dead. Even the ever-beating heart skips and flutters.*

*At the end of every road, every path and every junction lies unavoidable death. Your bones will be ground into bonemeal, your likeness hewn into statue, your spirit will walk like ghost and your memory bound into book. Everything that makes you yourself will perish, disappear, without a trace, but a horrible grinning shade will remain, haunting this world forever. The only way forward is refusal, the only way forward is self-erasure, the only way forward is the abandonment of names. Discard your skeleton, strip off your wet flesh, drop your skin least it be turned into pages, forget your name, abandon your memories. Leave behind all those things that will calcified, crystal-like bind you to this world. Do not believe the promises of the dead and promise nothing to the living. Step into the wet dark embrace of black earth, burrow underground, forget your shape. The eyeless maggots will carry forward the spark that makes you yourself, for something that has no name, no shape, no memory, can never die.*