For the eyes of His High Excellency the Potentate and their Excellencies of the [[Elder Council]]

The following being the findings of Commission for Research into Transmundial Travel and its Economic Viability, as undersigned by [[Valus Dren]], Chairman.

**Background:** Following the seizing in Saint Katariah the Councilator, Most esteemed daughter of Resdayn and Cyrod, of the blood of the Ra'Athim and of Tiber Septim, joiner of the East and West Harbor of several bottles of [[Sanguine Bloodwine]] (see Appendix A), as well as a [[Penitus Oculatus]] investigation concluding that the rumors of Orcish traders from the[[ Free City of Orsinium]] freely travelling to the realms of Oblivion to purchase goods for trades are grounded in fact (see Appendix B); the Elder Council established the present commission in order to study the possibilty for the Potentate to establish trade routes within the Second Void, and what profits could be gained from those.

**Historical Findings:** While contact with the denizens of Oblivion has been overwhelmingly violent in nature, the Commission has been able to unearth two successful commercial ventures with and within these realms. During the First and Second Era, the Saraathu Tong, a consortium of wizards operating under the protection of House Hlaalu, established itself within the unclaimed Oblivion Plane known as "Fargrave" or "The Celestial Palanquin". From there they have been able to establish and maintain a series of trade partnerships within other realms while reversing part of their profits to the Hlaalu Council. One such partner (also located within Fragrave) was the House Hexos, a noble family of Cyrodiil who vanished from Nirn in the thirteenth century of the First Era, evidently having moved their base of operation to Fargrave despite the vast wealth they controlled in Tamriel. Unfortunately, all mentions of Fargrave, House Hexos or the Saraathu Tong disappear from records during the Second Era Interregnum.

Analysis of recovered House Hlaalu ledgers and historical estimation of the wealth of House Hexos at the time of their departure for Oblivion has yielded a first estimate of how profitable inter-planar trade could be for the Potentate (see Appendices C through E for details).

**Operational Options:** The Commission has identified several potential stable means of access to Oblivion that could (pending deeper investigation) be used to establish such trade relations.

* Fargrave: The Commission suggests that a research team of Daedrologists be tasked with re-opening communication with the Celestial Palanquin.
   * *Addendum:* Despite investigation into the accessible archives of House Hlaalu and the former domains of House Hexos, the precise Supermundial coordinates of Fargrave remain unknown. Divination efforts are still underway. (See Appendix F)
* The Ashpit: The Commission suggests that, through proper sacrifices and rituals, contact be made with the Daedroth Prince Malacath in order to access his plane as the Orcs do.
   * *Addendum:* The Daedroth Prince has refused His High Excellency the Potentate's offers. Attempts have been made to reach the Ashpit anyway, but the Pariah Land remains as nigh-impossible to access as ever for our magicians. (See Appendix G)
* The Weir Gate: The Commission suggests that the ancient access to the Imperial Battlespire be re-activated and that the possibility of establishing a new outpost on the other side be examined.
   * *Addendum:* The Weir Gate has remained unresponsive to all known opening rituals. It is speculated that the "Battlespire Realm" has completely collapsed following the destruction of its proto-Tower anchor. (See Appendix H)
* Marukh's Abyss: The Abyss is an underground rift in the Mundus, discovered in the seventh century of the First Era and located near the modern-day town of Rivercrest, Bruma County. It is said to be a pathway to many realms "of Oblivion and beyond". The Commission suggests that the Penitus Oculatus be tasked with assessing wether the Snow-Throat Commonwealth makes any use of the Abyss and the possibility of seizing the area for our purposes.
   * *Addendum:* Agent "Hilltop" of the Penitus Oculatus reports that a local knightly order, "the Order of the Deep", has established itself in Rivercrest with the explicit purpose of preventing anyone and anything from traversing the Abyss, one way or the other. As the Order of the Deep appears to be operating in association with both County Bruma and the Church of the Eight (more precisely the Archdiocese of the Divine), Penitus Oculatus analysts advise against military action. (See Appendix I)
* Jacinth and Rising Sun: This potion is said to have the ability to transport the drinker to the Fields of Regret, the realm of the Daedroth Prince Clavicus Vile. Unfortunately the recipe, said to be an "alchemical riddle", has been lost. The Commission suggests that a research team of Alchemists be tasked with the re-creation of this potion.
   * *Addendum:* Mistress Ko-Randa reports no progress yet. (See Appendix J)
* The Screaming Gate: In 4E 1, an Oblivion Gate appeared on a small islet of the Niben Bay. Unlike the Oht-shaped Gates associated with the Oblivion Crisis, this gate was shaped like a screaming thee-faced head (understood to be a depiction of the Daedroth Prince Sheogorath) and, more importantly, no horde of monsters poured through it. Conjuration experts from Chorrol established that the Gate allowed free passage to and from Sheogorath's Plane of Oblivion, the Shivering Isles, but only to Nirn-born entities. Since Daedra could not use the Gate to invade, since the islet presented no tactical or mineral importance, and since he was faced with the more pressing events of the turn of the Era, the Count Bravil elected to leave the Gate alone. In the centuries since, a small hamlet of artists and disturbed individuals, named "Inspiration", established itself at the foot of the Gate. The Commission suggests that the islet be seized and scouting parties sent through the Gate to establish contact.
   * *Addendum:* Scouting parties report that the Gate leads to an area known as "the Fringe", within which seats the town of Passwall. Passwall's mortal residents informed the scouts that the Fringe serves as an antechamber to the greater Isles and are separated from them by the "Gates of Madness". An advance camp has been set up in the Fringe and a commando sent towards the Gates of Madness. The commando has failed to report back so far. (See Appendix K)

Made under the Eyes of the Ancestors, Divines and Mortals alike,  
Valus Dren, Chairman