Do write everything down carefully, little scribe, we wouldn't want your Red-Grey friends to miss a single word, would we? Since your mission is "to witness the lands and make records of their people", let me enlighten you as to the true nature of this Land! And that of its true heirs, we who were blessed with dual skins by the Hunt-Father! Do not call this place "Wrothgar and Karth", for its true name is far more ancient and far more powerful than the little lies of cowards who quiver behind stone walls! This land is the Rim of the Sky! Where the very Earth rises up to meet the Heavens! Where winds flow like rivers, and where water takes on the strength of rock, in memory of the Formless Times!

The Times of Liberty! When all were free to run without the shackles of form and name and face and death! When Mer, Man and Beast were words without meaning for all were one and one was all! Before the Liars came, as Tree and Hawk, and Song, and Law, and Scythe, and Scroll, and Stars, and the Sundering of birth! And before they tricked the Dragon into eating his tails and flying one way, circle-wise, cycle-wise, and told to the everything: "You are Plant and you are Beast, and forever shall you remain apart. You are Man and you are Mer, and forever shall you remain apart. You are Life and you are death, and forever shall you remain apart. You are One and you are the Other and never again shall you be Together." On Great Bone-Scrolls they wrote this so that it was forever true forward and backward, and all other paths were left untrodden.

And Man and Mer looked at Plant and Beast and said "Since you are not us, we shall remain separate, for you are Death and we are Life." And they built houses of stones to cut themselves further form the Land, and forever they kill each other and seek to never die as if that meant anything! And this new lie, which they called "civilization" was so great and so pervasive that the Land itself would have believed it, if it weren't for Hircine Hunt-Father, who never believes liars, and slays them wherever he finds them. And in nights like this... Yes, in nights like this, when the Moons are full and the winds shriek with the Mad One's voice, the Land remembers. And we, we who have stayed true throughout the centuries of the Time-Lie, are free to shed the shackle of form, and run and hunt as we really are! Yes, on nights like this, the stone-people remember how fragile their walls and cities really are. And they hide in the dark praying to their false gods for us not to come for them. You feel it don't you, little scribe? The thrill of the Hunt? Keep writing! Every word! I see it in the quivering of your quill, I hear it in the quickening of your breath, I smell it in the soiling of your breeches. As your heart pounds your temples as if to escape a cage, as your ears pick up every noise, as your eyes pierce the very dark to find a way to save yourself from our grasp, ask yourself. Have you ever felt more alive? Have you ever loved yourself more than in this moment of pure terror? This is the truth of the Hunt! This is the grim delight of Struggle!

But you're not the only one we will share this gift with tonight. Oh no, for tonight we run north, away from our lairs in the lands of craven, half-witted Brown-Green Reachfolk, towards the snowy walls of mis-named Solitude, where we shall howl and howl again, while its White-Blue people fall to their knees in delicious terror, until she howls with us. She! Hircine's Witch-Wife! The [[Wolf-Queen]] who bore him a son and mortal heir. The Burned Emperor, not of the weak, frozen blood of Atmora, but of the joined blood of the Dragon and the Hound! He who shall one day return to free this land of the liar-tyrants as he almost did in ages Past! And until this day come, we shall stay true to the Wolf Oath, to the [[Hörme]] Oath!

*My friend,*

*As you have no doubt surmised, I do not expect this letter to be included in our guide. I only passed it on to you in the hope that its contents, as well as those of the bloody package that accompanied it, which leave little doube on the gruesome fate that befell Enzo Fore, our envoy to Karth, will finally make you agree to my demands that we hire the Fighters' Guild to escort our envoys, rather than rely on the thugs you poetically call "security personnel" and who hardly seem suited to any job more demanding than shaking down a Colovian farmer.* *You will find enclosed a form stipulating that the 30-month pension Enzo's widower is entitled to shall be taken from your services' budget. I expect you to have it returned to me stamped by tomorrow.*

*Best regards and fair health to you,*

*T. S.*