*The Sapiarchy of Alinor is largely uninterested in the values of free trade, preferring protectionism or outright isolationism, but there is one notable exception: the Goblin city of King’s Haven. The region has been home to Goblins for millennia, stone tablets revealing that they were trading with the early Aldmer settlers of the Blessed Isles back in the Merethic Era. For most of their history, however, the Goblin-ken of the Isles were raided for slaves and pushed to the wilderness. Times have changed with the fall of the Dominion. These Goblins are no longer growling, primitive monsters carrying wooden spears and worshiping old idols, nor the witless dock-workers one occasionally encounters, but properly civilized folk who can speak Tamrielic almost as well as any Altmer. So that you do not embarrass yourself when you visit the Blessed Isle, dear fellow-traveler, let this be a guide on the basics of Alinori Goblins.*

*Between the First and Second Great Wars, the Thalmor realized they needed to make weapons cheap and fast, and relied on Goblin slave labor to accomplish that task as the Altmer people had for generations. The only problem being that the new equipment becoming standard required workers who could read and write runes, schematics, and alchemical formulae. Thus the Goblins were made literate and placed in labor camps across Eton Nir and its surroundings. Some may argue this was the Thalmor government’s undoing.* 

*Oh, we all have our favorite tale about who deserves the most credit in the fall of that old regime, but one fact that is certain is that the Goblins overthrew their Elven masters in King’s Haven during the Anarchy. And they did so using the very weapons, enchantments, and poisons they had been taught how to craft by their Altmeri overlords. They are quite proud of this history, and burn effigies of Thalmor justiciars every New Life Day.*

*The modern enchantment industry in King’s Haven is the finest in all of Alinor. Whether you want a shipboard ice cannon or an amulet to improve your singing voice, this is the place to go. Their intricate rune-weaving rivals that of some Breton wizards, and their poisons could down a hill giant with a few cuts. They are also masters of the air; the King’s Haven Welkynars were instrumental in driving the slavers from Eton Nir during the Anarchy, and the Welkynars remain a proud knightly order dedicated to preserving the liberty of their people. They often put on “air parades,” wearing fine leather caps with bug-eyed goggles as they wave about their glass-tipped lances, the griffins adorned with wooden talismans and moonstone anklets. The affairs are sure to amuse children, though they obviously hold no candle to the parades in the Potentate.*

*That is not to say life is perfect in King’s Haven. The Goblins here are more willing to trade than their neighbors, but still seem wary of formal guilds and trade companies; they have even refused to accept multiple offers for a permanent East Empire Company trade outpost. Their government remains tribal and disorganized, the Sapiarchs being largely content to let Goblins do as they please, and so their resources are severely mismanaged. Generational strife is growing as many of the younger Goblins have been assimilating into Altmeri society, moving to the predominantly Altmer cities and adopting the Old Ways. The old-timers fear abandoning their gods will make their children and grandchildren weak when relationships with the Altmer sour once more.* 

*The point is this: Goblins in Alinor are much more sophisticated than the barbaric kinds found in Bloodtoil and other wildlands. They exist as evidence that proper education can civilize even the most brutish people. Treat them civilly, and they will return the favor.* 