In the waning days of the Mede Empire, Bruma slowly found itself being distanced from the rest of Cyrodiil. Ethnic tensions, religious tensions, economic strain, and the threat of the Thalmor slowly piled up, opening a rift that steadily grew. By the time of the Empire's collapse, Bruma was effectively a member in name only.

After the Plague, Bruma found itself an independent city-state like its Colovian neighbors, yet more culturally and religiously connected to the fledgling Commonwealth, sharing the restored Nordic faith. Politically, County Bruma had also seen a resurgence of moots in government, albeit a weaker one wherein the aristocracy retained far more power. To the east, the Potentate loomed, to the south, the Archdiocese slumbered, and to the west, the divides of the Colovian city-states ever deepened. Despite this, the counts of Bruma remained resolutely independent, preferring to treat and trade with the Commonwealth as separate nations.

All this changed in the early 4e300s. One spring, a horde of Bjoulsae horsemen emerged from the Colovian steppes, larger than any before, and swept across Colovia, seemingly unstoppable. Desperate, the countess of Bruma sent runners north  begging for aid, praying to Ysmir that the moots of the Commonwealth would send troops in Bruma's hour of need. And the Commonwealth responded - Odahviing himself flew out from Bleak Falls Monastery at the head of dozens of Dragon Monks and two thousand militiamen gathered from Ilinalta Hold. Together, the forces of the Commonwealth and Bruma met the horse horde and threw them back.

That summer, the countess of Bruma travelled to the Great Moot at Ivarstead and asked for the Commonwealth to accept County Bruma as their newest hold.

Today, Bruma is a resolute member of the Commonwealth. The system of moots has proved popular among the common folk, yet the counts and countesses still hold to their titles and inheritance. But where the rest of the Commonwealth faces the raids of the sea giants as their greatest threat, Bruma faces the horse hordes and Potentate alike - and wonders which will prove more deadly.