The distinctions between Dragon Monks, dragons, monks, and dragon-monks are often lost on most citizens of the Commonwealth, to say nothing of the people beyond.

The term *Dragon Monk* is generally used to refer to the mortal, dragon-taught men and women of the various orders of monks and warrior-monks. These monks can broadly be separated into two categories: the New Tongues and the Kaal-Drem.

These orders both follow the same religion of neo-Ysmirism: a strange, occasionally incomprehensible belief that conflates Alduin, Odahviing, Paarthurnax, Miraak, Talos, and the Last Dragonborn into the deity Ysmir of Many Faces, worldly subgradient of his parents Kyne and Shor/Ald, who incarnates into the world to fight and learn from himself in search of enlightenment. Both hold that their orders were founded by the Last Dragonborn, and tell parables (often contradictory) of the interactions of the faces of Ysmir.

The Kaal-Drem tend more towards the monastic side of the Dragon Monks. The majority of dragon monk monasteries across Snow-Throat and on the flanks of the Throat of the World hold to the creeds of the Kaal-Drem. The New Tongues, in contrast, hold more to the warrior tradition, and have fewer but larger monasteries. However, monks of the New Tongues are welcomed into the monasteries of the Kaal-Drem and vice versa, and wandering monks of both lineages will often travel in each other's company, further blurring the distinction for the common person. In theory, the orders can be told apart by the color and cut of their robes and the armor and equipment they carry, but the myriad differences between monasteries, orders, and personal preferences causes a bewildering array of appearances. A monk is a monk is a monk, and when a monk is called upon for adjudication, any will do.

The most fundamental difference between the two lineages is their approach to the Voice. The New Tongue philosophy generally rejects the Way of the Voice, instead claiming that the Voice should, and even must, be used for martial purposes, as peace must be protected by violence. The Kaal-Drem, in contrast, hold more to the Way in imperfect imitation of the Greybeards, in pacifistic practice, worship, and self-defense. Both lineages claim the other is fundamentally misguided, and will often have Shouting matches in attempts to prove their points. Such matches are often inconclusive, to the ire of both, and the moral superiority of the Kaal-Drem in following the Way is often rankled by the New Tongues proving time and time again that pacifism is not always the answer.

However, not all Dragon Monks are mortals. Some Dragon Monks are in fact dragons themselves, sworn to the Way of the Voice and living in contemplation and seclusion in Kaal-Drem monasteries, protected from the world outside. These monk-dragon Dragon Monks are the patrons of Kaal-Drem orders, teaching their followers the Voice. 

Nor are all the patron dragons of Dragon Monks monk-dragons. The more active and widely-know dragons in the Commonwealth are the patrons of the New Tongues, sometimes called the Hunters. Led by the dragon Odahviing, these dragons have rejected both the Way of the Voice and dominion over mortals, instead preferring freedom. This has lead to the misconception that *all* dragons in the Commonwealth are followers of Odahviing, something the dragon himself regards with amusement.