*Very little has captured the public imagination like the rumored secret societies and mystery cults of the [[Freehold Republic]]. While the exoteric cults are obvious, and many of them in communion with larger Tamrielic society, the esoteric cults are strange and homegrown and often carry a tinge of elitism. An apologist might argue that the hardy people of the Abecean tend to be a more practical sort, that where an Neo-Alessianist monk might seek union with the One through intense meditation and seclusion, a Freeholder instead forms a practical reciprocal relationship with their gods in order to effect some change in the world. However, such manipulations of the world can be dangerous if not carefully managed, and thus only the elect are allowed to enter the upper echelons of these groups after years of proper training and education. Others taking a more critical lens, have claimed that it allows the wealthy elite to maintain a sense of social cohesion and distance from the common folk despite the Republic’s pretensions of meritocracy. Indeed, the cults connected to the patron deities of the resident patrician families are the most widespread (as far as we can know from an outsider’s point of view. Actual population data is, of course, almost nonexistent).* 

*Consider the [[Order of the Ageameld]], Xarxite Scribes and Seekers, devout arcanists who are eventually granted the special tomes that have the power to alter reality with a glyph, but also produce mental degradation in an untrained mind. Their order is the most elitist, as only a select few are given glimpses into their grand temple beneath Firsthold’s Great Library, and not many outside their order know the names of their leadership. And yet it is hard to deny that the power of Apocrypha would be dangerous if unleashed upon the masses. When they are publicly seen, Freehold arcanists are usually preparing runes and glyphs to strengthen alchemical ballistae and glass-porcelain torso armor that is common issue among the navy.*

*By stark contrast are the [[Numantia Sibylli]]. An order of mostly women in bright lily-covered robes who have rejected the idea that the prophecy of the sibyl should be limited to just one person, or religion limited to any building. Members train themselves to meditate upon spiritual aesthetics and eventually commune with Dibella herself, or one of her Heavenly Nypmhs, allowing the spirit to “speak through them.” They can be found in almost every port proffering their frenzied prophetic revelations, inspiration for the downtrodden, some of which actually comes true. Yet even they, so it is claimed, have higher membership for those who have perfected their love for Dibella and gained better mastery of the Sight. These high oracles are patronized by the nobility of the Republic, who glean every word for information they hope they might use on political rivals.*

*There are also the [[Stormwardens]]. An ancient group to be sure, some claim founded back in the times of the original Ayleid empire, but they have been modulated by Freehold society. Today they are strange animists who join along with many a ship, commanding a storm by calling upon its secret name, or singing to the waves to steer an enemy ship. Some scholars believe that these same storms come back stronger and more ferocious, perpetuating a dangerous cycle. Furthermore, unverified rumors speak of some greater powers hidden away in an elusive underground city, waiting to be unleashed upon Freehold’s enemies should their patrons in the Camoran Family give the order. Pure nonsense, perhaps, but it has found much purchase in the minds of some critics of the Republic.*

*The [[Phynasteran Preservers]] are the most obscure. Shrines to the Guardian of sailors and wayfarers can be found all across the Abecean and beyond, of course, but it is also known that higher tiers to the Phynaster cult exist. Mostly found among Freehold naval officers and expeditionary forces, they are said to be exclusive clubs that devote themselves to the model of the God of Journeys, believing each tour grants them a longer life and brings them closer to Alaxon.*