Maritime trade has always been important to the economy of Tamriel, but it has become even more so in our current day, to the point that poets have started to refer to the Fourth Era as "the Age of Oar and Sail", but with the increase in trade has unfortunately come an increase in piracy and of military struggles for control of advantegeous shipping lanes. As adverse to uniformity as they've always have been, each of Tamriel's many peoples has risen to the challenge of fighting over the waves in its own unique way.

The increased glaciation of the Sea of Ghosts has been disastrous for the Commonwealth maritime ambitions but has proven to be a considerable boon for dreaded Sea Giants, used as they are to the frigid waters of Rosecrea and Atmora. In order to combat their raids (as well as those coming from [[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]]), the ancient order of [[Fryse Hags]] has been given a simple purpose: to watch the seas and use their frost magic to encase enemy ships in ice immobilizing them and allowing the defensers to close the gap on foot. The few ships the Commonwealth still utilize are mostly of the traditional Nord-Atmoran style described below, but a particular innovation is to be mentionned: the sea chariot. As the name implies it is similar to the war-chariots of the Early First Era, large enough to contain only a pilot and a warrior throwing javelots at the enemy, while they buzz around the battlefield like flies. The difference lies in the wheels being replaced by a hull and the horses by a groupe of tamed horkers.

[[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]] continues to use the Atmoran-Nordic design: shallow-hulled symmetrical longships that can easily be beached, sail upriver or be carried to shore by a dedicated crew, often adorned with shields and symbols of the clans or houses of the captain and officers. The crew now almost systematically includes a weather-mage, often summoning a mist typical of the Sea of Ghost to hide the ship's approach. For larger operations, the longships usually accompany two- or three-masted frigates, wrought from [[Northpoint]] Harbour, and equipped with the latest developments in arcane weaponry. Less reputable reports make mention of the kingdom's riekr (ice-goblin) baronnies experimenting with ships made entirely out of magically sculpted ice, which are allegedly indistiguishable from a naturally occuring iceberg.

The [[Druadach Kingdom]] may be landlocked, but it is crossed by two major rivers, the Karth and the Bjoulsae, both of whom are of vital importance to neighboring powers. To defend them, the Reachfolk have erected a system of dams, watch towers and river locks equipped with balistae loaded with alchemical reagents as well as regularly patrol both rivers on canoe.

While the merchants of the [[Iliac League]] prefer to wage on light, [[Sentinel]]-designed ships that can outrun most on the Abecean sea, when the time comes to wage war, the wave-knights prefer to put their trusts in ships that happen to match the traditionnal image of a knight: slow but well armored and deadly. The seven- (or even nine-)masted galleons produced by [[Daggerfall]], with their thick oaken hulls and their quadruple rows of alchemical cannons, could hardly muster more than a snail pace if it weren't for the concerted effort of entire teams of entire teams of Breton weather-mages summoning favorable winds and currents. Of particular note is [[Wayrest]]'s recent development of "Iliac fire" an alchemical decoction that, when put into contact with air, bursts into sudden flames that neither water nor frsot magic seems able to quell. The Leaguers have naturally taken to fill hollow cristalline balls which they fire with abandons on enemy ships, every missed shot creating a floating puddle of flames on the very water, like a vision of Oblivion.

True to their traditionalistic politics, the [[Yokedate]] fleet remains in the pure Yokudan style that was already in use at the time of the first Warrior Waves, roughly analoguous to the Tamrielic brig or schooner, these emphasize speed over all other concerns. They are most commonly used to allow for quick boarding action. As every sailor of the Yokedate is also expected to be a competent fighter, this tactic usually works in their favor. A particular class of ship that is wholly unique to the Yokedate is the Bladeship. Even smaller than the others, these ships dart around battles at breakneck speed making sharp turns (some even alledgedly managing to dodge incoming fire) that would be completely impossible were it not for the storm atronachs bound to the ship by Tavan wizard-priests, so thar they can maneuver themselves close to the enemy and use a spring mechanism to deploy the long blades contained within their hulls to scuttle the enemy. To crew such a ship is considered the height of honor and bravery as a single one may destroy an entire floating fortress, but few survive more than a couple engagements.

The [[Freehold Republic]]'s fleet is a heteroclit mix of old Imperial West Navy ships, Bosmer song-carracks (shaped from a single "willing" tree), Forebear-style brigs and moonstone Altmeri vessels. Their main commonality is the used of enchanted Elven sails that somehow manage to use light in addition to wind to propel the ship.

The [[Sapiarchy of Alinor]]'s ships are made almost entirely out of metal, be it moonstone or glass. While conventional wisdom holds that this should make the ship too heavy to float, it appears the magic runes engraved on the hulls reduce that weight significantly, so much so that with a proper wind, the ship may rise above the waters high enough to unfurl its lower sails (but perhaps wings is more appropriate at this point) and sail the very sky, unchallenged except by dragons or sload airships.

As the [[Baandari fleets]] mostly depends on capture rather than shipyards to acquire new vessels, they tend to consist of an improbable patchwork of ships of all types, defying all attempts at classification. Cunning commodores use this fact to their advantage as it makes their tactics all the more unpredictable by would-be pirate hunters.

The Khajiit of Pelletine (those of Anequina tend to use the Imperial-style ships) use "dancing ships", characterized by their very high masts which give the vessels an unmistakable swaying under the lightest of breeze. While one would expect the ships to capsize almost immediately, they rarely ever do. Likewise, the catfolk seem immune to the sea sickness that almost invariably strikes down anyone attempting to sail one of those ships. Kahjiit sailors, in particular those of the Dagi and Dagi-raht kind take advantage of this swinging to literally jump unto enemy ships before the enemy could board their own.

The [[Second Potentate]] exists for the most part alonside the Niben River. In order to keep control of it, they have perfectd the form of the shallow-hulled ship with their triremes, both sea- and river-worthy, these ships posess an armored prow, which they use to ram enemy ships, allowing the marines to board in perfect Legion formation, as if fighting on the ground. Potentate marines are also trained for underwater fighting thanks to water-breathing spells, in order to combat Argonian drillers (see below).

For millenia Argonians have limited themselves to swamp-worthy rafts and canoes, and ignored the sea, but in the last few decades they have endeavoured to build a navy that matches their ambition as a majpr player on the continental scene. While this has mostly taken the form of reproducing Third-Era Imperial and Dunmer ships abandoned in [[Archon]], [[Soulrest]] or [[Thorn]], they have also come up with their own creations, in particular the "behemoth"-class: armored warships larger than even the Iliac galleons, filled to the brim with weapons of all kind, to the point it is said that a single one of these monstruosities would be enough to raze an entire city. They are so heavy they require Thrassian gasbags affixed to their hulls to stay afloat and are not propelled by sail or oar but by some unknown sorcery, knwon to produce noxious fumes and taint nearby water. Fortunately only three are currently known to exist, so expansive they are. In addition the lizardfolk take advantage of their amphibious nature with the use of "drillers": lightly armoured (sometimes completely naked) divers who swim to the hulls of enemy vessels to scuttle them from underneath.

Long a Minor House sworn to House Readoran, the Great House Sadras focused their efforts on maritime defense against nordic Raiders from Skyrim. The famous insectoid ships of the Dunmer have in fact all been designed and produced by House Sadras (with the odd exception coming from the profane imagination of a Telvanni mage-lord). Seeking to completely secure their position on the great council, Sadras is constently experimenting with nex designs all stranger than the next. Of particular note is that to counter the Argonian driller tactic (which destroyed most of their navy during the Accession War) they have taken to employing Dreugh mercenaries, who are even more at ease under the waves than the Argonians.

Finally, despite being a completely landlocked country, [[Orsinium]] does posess a navy. An air-navy, made of air balloons and small-range dirigbles, all retro-engineered from Dwarven remains. Their main role is to watch over the borders and roads of the kingdoms to spot any incoming threat (nomad armies in particular). This is probably the origin point of the ludicrous tales of Orcs sailing the waters of Oblivion to plunder and trade (likewise the reports of Orcish "whaleship submarines" in the Eltheric ocean are surely explained by the tendency of sailors to exaggerate what they witness at sea (such as regular whales) when inebriated).