Dragons have always been present in Tamriel, but for many centuries they remained elusive. After the fall of the last bastion of the Dragon Cult in 1E 139, they appeared sparsely throughout history, though they often played significant roles. In the Second Era, a dragon called Nafaalilargus served Tiber Septim as a weapon of the Empire before being killed by the Crown Redguard Cyrus. It is rumored that in the Third Era, a dragon sat in the court of Daggerfall on behalf of the Dowager Queen Nulfaga. Such instances of seeming subordination are relatively rare, however, and seem to be a result of their near extinction at the hands of the Nords. This all changed with the Dragon Crisis of 4E 201. Reports of the event are muddled with rumors and folklore, but what is known is that Dragons began reappearing in large numbers, primarily in and around Skyrim. Many of them were hostile, killing and destroying entire towns indiscriminately throughout the province. However, the cultural hero of Skyrim known to Nords as the Dovahkiin began a campaign of eradication against the wyrms, and appears to have succeeded in culling their population significantly. By the start of the Second Great War, what dragons remained had gone into hiding, and were absent from the battlefield on either side. When the Silver Plague set in and abruptly stopped the fighting, many dragons took the opportunity to migrate and settle across Tamriel with little resistance. They now reside undisturbed in many regions, welcomed by most out of either kindness or fear. Many claim to practice a form of pacifism known as the Way of the Voice, the largest of this group being the Kaal-Drem of Snow-Throat. They have amassed a sizable following, whom they teach in secluded monasteries modeled after the famous High Hrothgar temple. Though they seem peaceful, many are concerned that they are attempting to reestablish the Dragon Cult of old. Even more brazen in this regard is the dragon Odahviing and his cult of New Tongues. He and a small group of his kin lead this terrorist faction out of the Nordic ruins dotted across the region, enforcing their own ideas of peace and justice on the helpless citizens of the Commonwealth. Others still have taken up residence in the so-called Archdiocese of the Divines in the old Imperial City, roosting on the White-Gold Tower and along the city walls. They appear to serve the strange Temple of the One, protecting their sovereignty in what is no doubt a tenuous agreement. There are even rumors of a dragon mercenary in Orsinium, who demands tribute from the locals in exchange for protection. There were, however, those noble dragons who sought to repay their debts to Tamriel. These are the ones who defied the Dragon Cult in their time, or who did not take part in the destruction that was wrought during the Dragon Crisis. Those strongest and most honorable were accepted as soldiers in service to the Potentate, protecting its citizens and keeping peace and order. They reside along the Niben, vigilantly guarding against threats of all kinds, including their savage brethren. 