Expeditions to Atmora setting out from the Commonwealth typically follow one of several routes, colloquially referred to by the names *Solstheim, Saarthal, Solitude, Skaal,* and *Sload.* The first two routes - *Solstheim* and *Saarthal* - are the major routes, of which the last three are variations.

*Solstheim* is the simplest route, one which initially travels the common sea-lanes between the Commonwealth and Resdayn. Ships will set out from Windhelm or the Port of New Winterhold, sail to Raven Rock in Solstheim, offload cargo, take on supplies, and then set out north. 

The *Saarthal* route is typically traveled by the more devout sailors. Setting out north, the first stop is at the Port of New Winterhold, where propitiations are made to the Knowledge Gods - Jhunal, Orkay, and Mora - before sailing west to the hermitages of the ancient city of Saarthal. There, under unseen eyes, the sailors will ask the favor of Magnar, beseeching the All-Seeing and Unseen to protect them on their journey north. Dazzle the eyes of enemies by day, cast shadows by night, allow them to slip through ice and snow unseen by sea giants to reach their destination unharmed. After such rituals are done, the crews will then set out for Atmora.

*Solitude* is the route taken by the more crafty traders. After visiting Saarthal, the ships will then hug the coast, laying anchor in the Jarldom of Dawnstar to trade, then setting out to the capital of the Kingdom of Greater Wrothgar & Karth. There, in the harbor of Solitude, the ships will offload goods from the east, buy or barter for goods and supplies from the Kingdom, and then set out again, trading with coastal villages to the west before sailing northwest to the frozen north.

*Skaal* is a variation on the *Solstheim* route, and arguably no different. This route takes care to visit the Skaal in the island’s northwest, trading goods and occasionally people, as Nords seek to visit their distant kin and the Skaal themselves sometimes seek to explore the greater world. This route will then take the ships to the northeast, rather than north as the main Solstheim route will.

*Sload* is the newest route pioneered by the expeditions. Similar to the Solitude route, ships will hug Tamriel’s coast as they head west, then strike out northwest into the Sea of Ghosts. There, the crews will use the Pillar of Thras as a navigation point, taking advantage of its settled nature upon the open ocean. This route takes the expeditions far to the northwest, to the most sparsely explored reaches of land in Atmora.

Snow-Throat’s expeditions to Atmora have been of limited success. The land itself is so harsh as to be uninhabitable, frozen and beset by glaciers that creep from distant mountains to calve into the sea. What settlements exist are seasonal as of now, coming to life in the spring as ships arrive and freezing over in the fall as the inhabitants leave for the winter. They are nearly completely reliant upon Tamriel for supplies, save for fishing and hunting of horkers and whales. Yet the Commonwealth persists. Ships map more of the coast each year, sending expeditions with surveyors inland. More ruins of Atmora are excavated with each passing season, claimed from the ice and snow. Most recently, ships have brought with them supplies to build greenhouses and carve deep into the rock, giving hope that one day, citizens of Snow-Throat will live in Atmora year-round, beneath the midnight sun of summer and endless night of winter.