For many centuries, the enormous Giants native to Skyrim were ostracized, traveling with their mammoth herds as nomads and making camp in the wilderness. The Nords hated and feared them, and it was not uncommon for Jarls of less fortified holds to hire a group of Companions or sellswords to kill any that strayed too close to a town or settlement. This all changed when the Silver Plague decimated almost all trade in Skyrim, and its natives were forced to turn to less conventional partnerships, including their massive neighbors. The relationship at first was tenuous, with the Nords using primitive techniques such as painting patterns on items to communicate what they wished to trade, and miscommunications resulting in the death of one or both parties not being uncommon. However, it was soon found that many Giants already spoke limited Tamrielic, and some Tribes learned enough to effectively, if primitively, communicate with Nordic traders. This trade relationship was solidified when Gor Lonely-Hearth of Winterhold published *A Beginner’s Guide to Giantish*, a book which attempted to translate the Giant’s guttural tongue, allowing the language barrier to be broken from both sides. By the time the plague receded and the Commonwealth was instated, the Giants held such a large role in Skyrim’s economy that they were granted citizenship, and the Tribes of each hold are given representation at Hold Moots. Indeed, if you travel to any of the hold capitals, you can see the massive doors that have been installed into the Longhouses of each Jarl to allow the local Giant representative to enter. Throughout the region one can also find Giant traders, called Mammoth Merchants by the locals, outside many cities and settlements. They’ve driven away most competition by intimidation alone, although some groups of Orc traders maintain small footholds, namely in Hjaalmarch. 