*Travel in the Sea of Ghosts is generally a bad idea. Between dodging Nord pirates and chunks of Atmora, you’ll be constantly nipped at by freezing wind and, if you’re lucky, rain. If not lucky, have fun traveling in a blizzard. If you do find yourself in that area, one of the few safe ports before you reach the barbaric Commonwealth is the shrine of Ald Daedroth, tended by Reclaimed Temple priests under an agreement between the Indoril and the local Ashlanders. It’s an important spot on the “Path of the Incarnate,” a pilgrimage meant to retrace the steps of the Nerevarine. After you say your prayers, make sure to sail southwest for Rotheran on the main isle of Sheogorad to pay the tribe’s toll.*

*The resident Ahemmusa of the Sheogorad used to have a reputation as peaceful guar herders, but that likely hasn’t been true for years. For one thing, cold-blooded guar wouldn’t take to the chilly air of the Sea of Ghosts. Now the Ahemmusa live on fish, horker, and loot. They sail out in their longships with their witch-warriors ready to sink outlander ships who haven’t paid the toll, freezing the water around the vessel or striking the sails with lightning. I sailed once with a minor merchant-noble who thought he could bypass the Ahemmusa without paying. His body’s still under the waves.*

*If you go to the north of the island you’ll find the hearth-town of Dagon Fel. The Nords and the Ashlanders used to hate each other, but necessity is the mother of hatchet-burying. Seems that during the Silver Plague and the Frostfall of Atmora spreading southward, the Sheogorad was isolated from the rest of Tamriel and the tribes were forced to trade with each other. You can see traces of their influence on one another if you know where to look. Sometimes hear Nord warriors praying to Boethiah the Berserker who avenges Shor, and the Ahemmusa witches clearly use fryse magic and Nordic rune-inscribed weapons, even though they claim Azura taught them such things.* 

*If the Redoran had any sense they’d get rid of these marauders, but it’s an open secret that the Ahemmusa occasionally raid settlements in the northern Telvanni peninsula, and that the Redoran benefit from their old foes being kept in check. Seems the whole region will be dangerous until a proper government comes along.*

\--

*The Ahemmusa aren't as bad as they make it sound. It's true that they raid Telvanni settlements and outlander ships now and then, but they keep casualties to a minimum to prevent all-out war. They also trade with outsiders, and Rotheran's a pretty nice place to visit if you've got the time. Their sujamma-mead is out of this world. - Yzmul*