The term “whaleship” refers to a broad variety of craft designed for interplanar travel by the Deep Orcs of Orsinium. These vessels can vary broadly in size, design, and purpose, but have two unifying facets: construction from whalebone & moth silk and the general shape of a whale. 

The external skin of a whaleship is made of sheets of moth-silk, inked with runes and spell-circles to catch, store, and direct magica. Motivator-runes cover the fins and tail, allowing for the generation of a push/pull effect, while other patterns serve to strengthen the silk, immunize it and the interior from magical effects, attune it to the currents of the Mundus, and much more.

The whalebones themselves form the interior skeleton of the ships. Engraved with channels and runes, bound with wires of orichalc and steel, the bones give both structure and purpose to the whaleship. For reasons unknown as yet, the whalebone itself appears to allow transit between planes - an oddity noted by many familiar with the Nordic myths.

The earliest and indeed most archaic of whaleship designs resembles a whale internally as well as externally. In imitation of a living creature, skeins of silk and woven orichalcum form muscles and sinews, motivated to move through careful application of magica. Often cramped and inefficient compared to modern designs, few remain in usage by whaleship crews, more often ending up in collections across Orsinium or stored in the vaults of the Deep Orcs. 

The whaleships of the Beseechers and the ruling council take a modestly different form, but at a much larger scale. These whaleships are the largest to be found, comparable in size to the largest ocean going vessels of Tamriel. Large enough to house a crew of dozens for weeks or even months at a time, the ships of the Beseechers have upon their back an arena, in which the Beseechers themselves must undertake ritual combat against Daedra before each audience with Malacath. Internally, these vast creations utilize a system similar to the earliest whaleships - artificial muscles and sinews to shape and direct the whaleship and catch the all-important streams of magica beamed from Orsinium through the Ashpit.

The most modern designs of the Deep Orcs have taken a different approach. Whilst silk and orichalc sinews may be found wrapped around the frames of bone, these whaleships utilize far more clockwork machinery, reverse-engineered gyros and bearings from Dwemer mechanisms and manually-driven controls reduce the amount of magica required to power the whaleship. Instead, that magica can be channeled to the motivator-runes, accelerating the whaleships to unheard of speeds. Most whaleships built in this style so far are relatively small raiders and traders, holding crews of a dozen or less.

While the strength and prosperity of Orsinium is largely thanks to the whaleships and trade they bring, cracks have begun to emerge in Orcish society. Production of new whaleships and whaleship designs is the territory of the Deep Orcs, who have become increasingly insular and removed from wider Orcish society, some even going so far as to forswear the worship of Malacath. Many see this as worrisome - for what will happen if the Deep Orcs decide to retreat further from Orsinium, deeper into the depths of the Dragontails, or vanishing into the Ashpit itself in the bellies of whaleships and mountains stolen from the surface world?