To give an history of [[Cyrodiil City]] is to give an history of the Empires of Cyrodiil in brief, so tied are the two. The City was founded by the Wild Elves of the Heartland, around the White Gold Tower; from there they spread their tyrannical rule until the Alessian Revolt of 1E 243. Alessia the Slave-Queen naturally chose the city as capital of her new Empire, and the White-Gold Tower as her palace, as its central location made it ideally suited to the task. While the Tower's Ayleidic origins are well-documented, those of the Temple of the One are not as clear. Some have it also be an Ayleidic structure, others credit Alessia herself, or Marukh the Seer, with its erection. Regardless, the Temple would play as central a role in Cyrodiil's religious life as the White Gold Tower did in its political one, for much the same reasons.

As the Empire grew, so did Cyrodiil City, soon known universally as the Imperial City. It was the center of Cyrodiil, the center of the Empire, the center of Tamriel and, mystics claimed, the center of the very Aurbis. From all corners of the map people flocked to its walls, and the city swelled in size, covering the Ruby Islands. At its peak, it was home to more than a million souls and perhaps half as many visitors, whether for commerce, politics or tourism. This constant flux of people resulted in a tradition of cosmopolitanism unseen anywhere else, and with it the proliferation of hundreds of cults to gods, saints and demons alike. But in the City of a Thousand Cults, the strangest one was perhaps the one promoted by the nobility and the rulers.

Alessia established the worship of the Eight of the Imperial Pantheon, mixing Elven and Cyro-Nordic traditions, but it was Marukh who codified much of the hymns and ceremonies still in use in the modern Imperial Cult. In particular, it was him and his immediate followers who insisted that places of worship should honor all members of the pantheon. This tradition would, over the centuries, shift into the odd theology of the Alessian Order, where a seemingly infinite number of spirits were acknowledged but all understood as various guises of the increasingly abstract "One", the sole true God of the faith, who was usually identified with the most popular Divine of a given region, often Akatosh.

At the center of this religious movement was the Temple of the One. While the original deity this Church was initially dedicated to (Auri-El, Shezarr, Akatosh, some even say Saint Alessia herself who was allegedly buried in the Temple) is unclear, the Temple quickly became the headquarter of the Alessian Order, and the personal stronghold of the Order's Arch-Prelate. For centuries it served as a rival power to the temporal Emperors of the neighbouring White-Gold Palace, until the First Empire dissolved into the chaos of the War of Righteousness and the Order itself was destroyed.

Despite the Order's hold on the noble class and inteligentsia of the Empire, the common people of Cyrodiil had clung to the view that each of the Eight Divines were, in fact, separate beings. With the end of the Order, individual cults to each Divine spread throughout Cyrodiil, from ancient centers of worship, establishing the Great Chapels of the Imperial Church: of Akatosh in Kvatch, of Arkay in Cheydinhal, of Mara in Bravil, of Dibella in Anvil, of Zenithar in Leyawiin, of Stendarr in Chorrol, of Julianos in Skingrad and of Kynareth in the wilds of the Great Forest, each with its own Archbishop (or Primate to use the offical term). But these Eight Cults were still one Faith and the Council of Eight, gathering each Primate, was established to oversee the entire Church's hierarchy. As befits the High priest of the king of the gods, the Primate of Akatosh lead the entire Cult; but this gathering happened, not in Kvatch, but in the Imperial City, by long tradition. The Temple of the One was reconsecrated to all Eight Divines and the Communion of the Saints (though the name was too entrenched to be changed despite many attempts to do so) and it was entrusted to a "Bishop of Cyrodiil, Grand Curator of the High Imperial Temple of the Eight", or Archbishop of the One as the laypeople always referred to them. This position, elected by the Council of Eight, was usually granted to a priest of Akatosh, sometimes of Dibella (though in the Third Era a number of priests of Talos were chosen) and served as representative of the Cult to the Imperial Court and direct liaison with the Emperor.

The Temple's importance only grew when Reman I established the rituals of coronation and folded them with the lighting of the Dragonfires of Covenant, a religious ceremony held in the Temple. The Reman Emperors, and the Septims after them, understood the power that the Cult possessed and made it a crucial part of the spread of Imperial values (and loyalty) in the Provinces. This reached a dangerous apex when a plot, masterminded by an Archbishop of the One, an Imperial Bastard by the name Calaxes Septim, almost re-established a theocracy in Cyrodiil, after which the Church saw its powers greatly reduced. The Temple of the One played a key role in the resolution of the Oblvion Crisis, at the turn of the Third Era. These events re-ignited populat faith in Akatosh (whose cult had been steadily losing grounds to Talos's), this was reinforced by the signing of the White-Gold Covenant in 4E 175 that banned the worship of Tiber Septim. At this point the Temple of the One had become a Great Chapel of Akatosh to rival the one in Kvatch (which had been sacked by the invading Daedra) in all but name.

During the [[Second Great War]], large swathes of people fled to the safety of the Imperial City. Unfortunately, along with them came the [[Silver Plague]] which eagerly fell on the crowded city. While the people died in droves, the Imperial Court fled the City, leaving it into the care of the Imperial Watch, who disintegrated a scant few weeks later. When the epidemic reached its apex, corpses littered the streets, outnumbering the living five six times over, and those who had not managed to flee in time turned to the only ones willing and able to help them: the priesthood of the Temple, seemingly spared by the disease. When the plague abated, the [[Archbishop]], [[Alessia Varenti]], took it upon herself to restore order, until the hypothetical return of an Emperor, and recreated the [[Order of the Hour]], a militant priestly order, to serve as a Watch and eventually a military force of the City (independently from a similar revival in [[Kvatch]]). The priests quickly took control of the lands surrounding the City itself, on the shores of Lake Rumare, as the locals were all-too-willing to accept any authority to end the lawlessness of the time. The [[Archdiocese]], as a political entity, was born.

In the second half of the third century, the Great Chapels renewed contact with each other and the [[Council of Eight]] was re-established, but their time apart had exacerbated the differences between the variants of the Cult. [[Bruma]] had fallen to the heathen worship of "[[Neo-Ysmirism]]" and severed ties with Cyrodiilic Faith altogether, [[Bravil]] now associated Mara with a host of "Saintly Ancestors", [[Skingrad]]'s Julianites acted under the patronage of an undead monarch, Kynareth's believers had established a new Chapel in [[Sutch]] and included goblins in their ranks, [[Cheydinhal]] had enhanced ancient Arkayn traditions with Dunmeri practices and [[Chorrol]]'s Chapel of Stendarr had turned itself into a fortress. But the greatest rift was between the traditionnal Akatoshic worship of [[Kvatch]] and the "[[neo-Alessianism]]" of the Archdiocese. Indeed, in the wake of the [[Tibedetha Incident]], the priests of the City started to preach that the alignment of the planets had been a demonstration of the unity of the Gods. Theological arguments for the monotheistic-beliefs of the Alessian Order were brought to light again, and a new creed started to form. The [[Archdiocese]] now professes that "Eight is One", the Eight Divines, merely being faces of Anu, associated with the Eight virtues, Akatosh himself, being himself associated with Nobility, was simply the highest and truest of these faces. All the other gods were once again reframed as lesser manifestations or emanations of Anu/Akatosh the One, a claim the other Primates quietly ignore.

This religious transformation took decades to complete, but the priests of the Archdiocese believe it was vindicated when, in late 4E 300, eight Dragons chose to roost in the abandonned white Gold Tower. The Archbishop of the time, [[Leonara Gallio]], met with the flight's leader, [[Shulkunaak]], and reached some kind of agreement that remains secret to this day. In response, the [[Primate of Akatosh]] in [[Kvatch]], [[Caecillia Medori]] excommunicated Gallio and anyone who followed her. Gallio answered in kind and, for the first time since the Second Era, the Council of Eight was split as a rival "Conclave of Kvatch" was established. this conclave was short-lived, however, as the Bosmeri coup of 335 radically altered worship of the Time Dragon in Kvatch. Nowadays, the [[Council of the Eight]] still exists, with the [[Archbishop]] of the One officially representing Akatosh, but many priests of Akatosh in Colovia defer to the Primate of Auri-El in Kvatch instead.

[[Cyrodiil City]] never fully recovered from the devastation brought about from the plague. The people are gathered along the outer walls, with each district becoming more and more empty as as one travels towards the center. Only the Temple District is fully occupied, while the Arena district is almost entirely abandonned, and reputedly haunted by the victims of the Aldmeri Dominion during the First Great war. The Elven Garden district has for the most part been converted into intra-muros farmlands. In other districts, unoccupied buildings are scavenged for stone and bricks (the City's main export) or left to whichever gang or band of goblins would lair there. The White Gold Tower and the surrounding Green Emperor Way is now the domain of [[Shulkunaak]]'s flight and their mortal attendants, a group going by the name of "[[Scaled Vicars]]". Each district of the City and each village of the Heartlands are adminstered by a bishop, seconded by a Knight-Paladin of the [[Order the Heavens]] (the renamed Order of the Hour).