After the rise of the Thalmor, the monarchies across the former Summerset Isles were abolished. They did not, however, abolish the Altmeri obsession with heritage and familial rulership - nor did they wish to, instead allowing noble oligarchs to remain in their new Dominion so long as they cooperated with the Thalmor government. Following the collapse of the Thalmor during the Second Great War, however, the Kinlords and Kinladies took advantage of the chaos to establish their power over a new republic in [[Auridon]]. Near the end of the Plague they emerged from the isolated [[Auridon]] to begin the [[Gold Coast Conquests]], which were not a single war but rather a series of acquisitions by way of skirmish, marriage, trade agreements, and black ops.

The modern [[Freehold Republic]] is officially a complex series of alliances between various city-states who meet on occasion at the House of Kinlords on the island of Stirk. Each family wears a calian talisman around their neck or on their finger displaying their heritage and Divine affiliation (keeping the calian in a box is now considered impractical). However, the Council is primarily ruled by the [[Sacred Six Families]]; patrician houses who wield strong spiritual, military, and especially economic control over their respective hegemonies. In keeping with Altmeri tradition, they each claim an Aedra as their family’s particular patron ancestral deity, though there is an understanding that descent from those Aedra is more spiritual rather than literal for some. Hermaeus Mora is the Ur-Dra and God of the Tides who acts as the ultimate ancestor of the Republic, though his worship is somewhat half-hearted among the Redguards and Colovians. 

The most powerful house is the **Adariel Family** of [[Freehold]], whose patron Aedra is Xarxes the Scribe. Formerly members of the Merchant class in the old caste hierarchy of the Isles, they formed an alliance with the Elsinor Family which would lay the foundation of the modern Republic. [[Cyrellan Adariel]] was a caonreeve and High Justiciar of the Dominion government who joined the side of the rebels when the public began to turn against the Thalmor regime, claiming he had realized the evils of the Thalmor and what must be done for the good of Auridon. He heavily promoted a sect of Xarxes worshipers preaching that Xarxes was a student of Hermeaus Mora who led a rebellion against the Dragons and then an exodus to Tamriel. This doctrine gained popularity among the Altmer who had now associated Auri-El with the hated Thalmor, and that it conveniently lined up with the narrative of the Adariel Family as heirs of Xarxes rebelling against Thalmor tyranny was no doubt a happy accident. Auri-El remains an important figure in Auridon religion, but he is now depicted as the wayward pupil of *Xarxes*.

The Adariel Family secured its power through their expertise in magic, particularly the field of arcano-engineering. They evolved the modern soul [[Ingenium workshops]], improving vastly on the inefficient Dunmeri design, and monopolized this technology throughout most of the third century. Their power has waned slightly in recent years, due to the rise in competitors, and they are now aggressively pushing new spells and enchantments that are poorly tested and of dubious safety. They also control the [[Auridon Paladins]], the traditional law-enforcement of Freehold society.

[[Skywatch]] is home to the **Elsinor Family**, whose patron Aedra is Phynaster the Guardian. When Cyrellan Adariel declared independence for Firsthold, his brother-in-law the fleet commander [[Andil Elsinor]] joined him. They are proud of their strong naval traditions, descended as they are from the Warrior caste, and their military might on the sea was instrumental in the expansionist aims of the Republic. They are in serious talks about colonizing [[Pyandonea]], and are rumored to be eying the [[Yokuda]]n isles to the west as well. The Grand Admiral of the Freehold Navy is almost always a member of the Elsinor. 

The **Camoran Family** based in [[Woodhearth]] claims Jephre the Singer as their patron Aedra. This branch of that ancient dynasty fled the [[Bloodtoil Uprising]] and later married a son of the Adariel, joining the Republic. They follow the Bosmeri tradition of matrilineal descent rather than the patrilineal tradition of the Auridon Kinlords. Their reverence for Jephre has clearly taken on some Altmeri qualities, now a God of Bards as much as Nature, and their [[Jephrine Paladins]] are expert thaumavocalists, masters of tonal warfare. Their stance on the [[Green]] strikes a middle ground between the Bosmeri reverence for nature and the Altmeri view of nature as a clay to be molded. Traditionalist Bosmer disdain what they see as a betrayal of the Green Pact, while the other patrician families are bewildered by Woodhearth’s backwards-seeming reverence for the natural world that has hampered their arcano-technological development.

During and after the Second Great War, [[Anvil]] had been dominated by a Dominion admiral-turned-warlord. The **Umbranox Family** of Anvil, formerly the royals of that County, formed (some claim re-established) connections to the criminal underworld and began a war in the back alleys and street corners, eventually winning back their city and joining the Freehold Republic. Their patron Aedra is Dibella the Passionate, who in the Umbranox interpretation has taken on some Sanguinic qualities in the eyes of critics, much to the chagrin of the actual [[Chapel of Dibella]]. Dibella-as-the-hedonist features prominently in the advertisements for Umbranox-managed brothels and gambling dens. The Primate of Dibella, meanwhile, does what she can to promote the arts and other high styles of living Church canon believes the Lady of Love represents, funded by concerned citizens dismayed by what the City of Bendu Olo has become. The Umbranox also have a hand in smuggling, loan sharking, and protection racketeering; and their lawlessness has earned them ire and awe in equal measure. Organized crime is almost nonexistent in the Republic outside the Umbranox Family, who keep it safe and regulated, just like the Thieves Guild of old.

The **at-Reymon** Family of [[Abah’s Landing]] claim Reymon the Black Knight as their Aedra. During the buildup to the Second Great War, a Lhotunic sect called the Remnants rebuilt the [[No Shira Citadel]] south of Abah’s Landing to train a new batch of sword-singers who could battle the Aldmeris Dominion in the inevitable conflict to come. During the Dragon Crisis, they saw Alduin as the apparition of Sep - surely a sign that great change was coming. The Remnants invited a group of Blades fleeing the Forsworn siege of Sky Haven Temple to train with them and the resulting fusion group, Abah’s Blades, are the premier Dragon hunting organization in Tamriel. Dark gossip claims they are also assassins for the Republic, and so the double entendre of Abah’s Blades is likely intentional (only unclean blades can get the job done). The leader of the Citadel formed an alliance with the fledgling Republic near the end of Silver Plague, and overthrew the nobles previously ruling Hew’s Bane. 

The main strength of the at-Reymon Family is their monopoly on mercenary services throughout the Republic; all Fighters Guild halls in Freehold have been converted into Temples (or Citadels) of Ebonarm, each chapter led by Battlemasters related to the at-Reymon. Though a member of the Republic, they also tolerate the presence of a symbolic Yokeda. They do not, however, recognize the legitimacy of the Emperor of Old Hammerfell, due to said Emperor’s insistence that Ebonarm is a "false god." The culture of Hew’s Bane has become a melting pot of multiple heritages: Redguard, Altmer, and Akaviri. Shrines to the great saints of the sword of all representative cultures can be found in the temple-fortress that is No Shira Citadel: Saint Frandar Hunding, Saint Divad the Singer, Saint Makela Leki, Saint Renald the Skin-Changer, Saint Torinaan the Foresailer, and Saint [[Delphine]] the Serpent-Slayer.

[[Chasegard]] weathered the [[Silver Plague]] better than its neighboring [[Rihad]], and became the hegemonic capital of the region. The lords of the city are the **Shraj Family**, who claim Zeht (or Z’en) the Iron Merchant as their patron Aedra. They are the youngest and weakest Sacred Family in the Republic, most of their wealth tied up in the humble industries of mining and agriculture. They have recently made great advances in [[Geomancy]], which they have used to uncover soul gem geodes that are becoming highly sought-after in the modern soul economy. 

The Republic is prosperous and politically dominant in western Tamriel, but cracks of division are starting to show. The conservative traditionalists in Adariel and Elsinor are skeptical of the growing influence of the younger families, and are especially disturbed by the libertine and open-minded attitudes of the Umbranox and Shraj Families. The at-Reymon and Camoran Families act as moderating voices, hampered somewhat by their own ambitions for greater influence on the Council. Goblins are free throughout the Republic, but prejudice still exists and the majority of them are dockworkers, day laborers, and household servants. Some Goblins see their cousins thriving in the Sapiarchy and are inspired to agitate for greater integration into the Republic, but so far their efforts are in vain.

Notes:
The Elvish families refer to themselves as Kinlords (or Kinladies, especially in the case of the Camoran), while the Mannish families use the Cyrod term of "Patrician."

A "seventh family" was appointed in [[Greenheart]] who send a delegate to Stirk, but they are controlled by the Baandari Pirates.
