*As one of the younger political powers in modern Tamriel, the so-called “New [[Ayleid Imperium]]” (officially, the “Imperatum Adonai av Sunnamora”) is oft-misunderstood by outsiders. No surprise - given its confusing usage of reconstructed Ayleidoon; its peculiar blend of Aldmeri, Colovian, and even Khajiiti religious traditions; and most of all the questionable desire to emulate the cruel ancient Empire that Saint Alessia fought so hard to overthrow. Indeed, there was much alarm in 4E 335 when the Imperium finally gained statehood after the coup of [[Kvatch]], with at least a few Elder Councilors calling for economic sanctions. Thankfully, the moderating voice of His High Excellency won out and the Imperium was instead granted time to develop on its own, with some aid from the Tamrielic [[Bank of Zenithar]].*

*Ayleid Revivalism is nothing new; possibly as old as the fall of the original Ayleid Empire if one uses a generous reading of history. More responsible scholars might instead point to the short-lived “Dawnwood” from the chaotic middle years of the Second Era, a small Bosmeri nation later re-absorbed into the Colovian Estates. By the Fourth Era it was gaining greater purchase among Cyro-Bosmer who felt alienated from their primitive cousins in Bloodtoil and inspired by the image of true “Heartland Elves” thriving in Tamriel. The movement also found some support among Cyro-Khajiit, disillusioned by the spiritual and political turmoil of the former Elsweyr Confederacy and interested in a past when Elf and Cat lived together as one. For people of any background coming out of the [[Silver Plague]], the dream of building a new society guided by the Light of Magnus and limited only by the Magic of Knowledge seemed rather enticing**^(1)**.*

*The Imperium is divided into five distinct classes. At the top are the Adoni, wizard-priests and Defenders of the Faith. Each wears an adabal (“spirit stone”) cut from varla which glows with the Divine Mandate, and when that light dims their right to rule is revoked. Or so they claim. The institution is obviously borrowed from the Amulet of Kings of the old Septim Empire, though a Revivalist might claim the Cyrods learned it from their Saliache forebears. Beneath the Adoni are the Chaplains, the only other land-owning class, a large aristocracy of priests, mages, clerics, magistrates, and bureaucrats. Next are the Questing Knights, the officers of the military. Many Questing Knights can become Chaplains by conquering, purchasing, or developing land. It should be no surprise that the military has become quite large as many an Ayleid considers it their best path to land-ownership and wealth****^(2)****. Plebeians are the middle and working class, followed by the lowest servants at the bottom of the hierarchy.* 

*Representation in Sunnamora is not like in our own Nibenay. The Adoni and the Chaplains send representatives to the city of [[Silvenar]], similar to our own Elder Council at a glance, but there are no guilds of significance in that land, nor are there any of the other careful check and balances our Sagacious Potentate has put it place to prevent either the mobs or the nobles from achieving total power. The plebeians may advance through service in the military, the clergy, or the arenas. Furthermore, while some of the plebeians can vote on local citizen councils that have limited power in small-scale issues, the servants have nothing equivalent.*

*We must also discuss religion. There is much diversity to be found in the New Imperium - though the Gods of Light remain dominant; Auri-El, Magnus, and Meridia. In [[Kvatch]] and some outlying Colovian communities the Primate of Auri-El continues to maintain an illusion of continuity with the old Septim Doctrines, with some notable alterations. In [[Miscarcand]] the [[Dawnway philosophy]], initially a Wild Elf compromise with the [[Green Pact]] that evolved over the years, has become all but absolute as the local clergy attempt to commune with the Stars. The Khajiit of [[Senalana]] practice an interesting faith that re-interprets Azurah as the Guardian of the Firmament, Magrus only her Third Eye. Further south the more traditional Greenist Bosmer appear, alongside the [[Green Prophets]] who continue to practice their blood magic and spiritual rebellion against all authority. Esoteric cults of Hermeaus Mora and Xarxes have proliferated throughout the Imperium due to Freehold influence, but by their nature are difficult to gauge in numbers.* 

*Currently, the Imperium is at a crossroads. Though the [[Treaty of Xylo]] with the tribes of Bloodtoil has “held” since 344, violence in the southern jungles remains common as the Green Prophets fail to keep the barbarian warlords in line. Nevertheless, certain bellicose members of the Imperium seek to march south, scatter the Pack and establish a port on the southern trade route. Others look north and east, with ambitions towards the divided Colovian Estates; especially the vampire-run city of Skingrad that is an abomination to all faithful of Meridia. The Potentate, of course, is working to encourage only peace and prosperity for this young people**^(3)**.*

*….*

^(1)*They came close to telling the truth. All this talk from the nobles of “ancient empires” and “revived pasts” is just propaganda to unite the masses, no matter what province you find yourself in. It’s not like our own “High Excellency” actually gives a damn about the lost glories of the Septims or the sacred legacy of Akavir when his speeches are over.*

^(2)*Their military is huge, too big to be sustainable. The Knights are always looking for new land to conquer, and the “Adoni” are eager to please. Seems skirmishes are common, and their borders have a bad habit of shifting.*

^(3)*Yes, I’m sure.*

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
Chapter Draft: New Ayleid Imperium (Sep. 2, 2024)

*As one of the younger political powers in modern Tamriel, the so-called “New Ayleid Imperium” (officially, the “Imperatum Adonai av Sunnamora”) is oft-misunderstood by outsiders. No surprise - given its confusing usage of reconstructed Ayleidoon; its peculiar blend of Aldmeri, Colovian, and even Khajiiti religious traditions; and most of all the questionable desire to emulate the cruel ancient Empire that Saint Alessia fought so hard to overthrow. Indeed, there was much alarm in 4E 335 when the Imperium finally gained statehood after the coup of Kvatch, with at least a few Elder Councilors calling for economic sanctions. Thankfully, the moderating voice of His High Excellency won out and the Imperium was instead granted time to develop on its own, with some aid from the Tamrielic Bank of Z’en.*

*Ayleid Revivalism is nothing new; possibly as old as the fall of the original Ayleid Empire if one uses a generous reading of history. More responsible scholars might instead point to the short-lived “Dawnwood” from the chaotic middle years of the Second Era, a small Bosmeri nation later re-absorbed into the Colovian Estates. By the Fourth Era it was gaining greater purchase among Cyro-Bosmer who felt alienated from their primitive cousins in Bloodtoil and inspired by the image of true “Heartland Elves” thriving in Tamriel. The movement also found some support among Cyro-Khajiit, disillusioned by the spiritual and political turmoil of the former Elsweyr Confederacy and interested in a past when Elf and Cat lived together as one. For people of any background coming out of the Silver Plague, the dream of building a new society guided by the Light of Magnus and limited only by the Magic of Knowledge seemed rather enticing**^(1)**.*

*The Imperium is divided into five distinct classes. At the top are the Adoni, wizard-priests and Defenders of the Faith. Each wears an adabal (“spirit stone”) cut from varla which glows with the Divine Mandate, and when that light dims their right to rule is revoked. Or so they claim. The institution is obviously borrowed from the Amulet of Kings of the old Septim Empire, though a Revivalist might claim the Cyrods learned it from their Saliache forebears. Beneath the Adoni are the Chaplains, the only other land-owning class, a large aristocracy of priests, mages, clerics, magistrates, and bureaucrats. Next are the Questing Knights, the officers of the military. Many Questing Knights can become Chaplains by conquering, purchasing, or developing land. It should be no surprise that the military has become quite large as many an Ayleid considers it their best path to land-ownership and wealth****^(2)****. Plebeians are the middle and working class, followed by the lowest servants at the bottom of the hierarchy.* 

*Representation in Sunnamora is not like in our own Nibenay. The Adoni and the Chaplains send representatives to the city of Silvenar, similar to our own Elder Council at a glance, but there are no guilds of significance in that land, nor are there any of the other careful check and balances our Sagacious Potentate has put it place to prevent either the mobs or the nobles from achieving total power. The plebeians may advance through service in the military, the clergy, or the arenas. Furthermore, while some of the plebeians can vote on local citizen councils that have limited power in small-scale issues, the servants have nothing equivalent.*

*We must also discuss religion. There is much diversity to be found in the New Imperium - though the Gods of Light remain dominant; Auri-El, Magnus, and Meridia. In Kvatch and some outlying Colovian communities the Primate of Auri-El continues to maintain an illusion of continuity with the old Septim Doctrines, with some notable alterations. In Miscarcand the Dawnway philosophy, initially a Wild Elf compromise with the Green Pact that evolved over the years, has become all but absolute as the local clergy attempt to commune with the Stars. The Khajiit of Senalana practice an interesting faith that re-interprets Azurah as the Guardian of the Firmament, Magrus only her Third Eye. Further south the more traditional Greenist Bosmer appear, alongside the Green Prophets who continue to practice their blood magic and spiritual rebellion against all authority. Esoteric cults of Hermeaus Mora and Xarxes have proliferated throughout the Imperium due to Freehold influence, but by their nature are difficult to gauge in numbers.* 

*Currently, the Imperium is at a crossroads. Though the Treaty of Xylo with the tribes of Bloodtoil has “held” since 344, violence in the southern jungles remains common as the Green Prophets fail to keep the barbarian warlords in line. Nevertheless, certain bellicose members of the Imperium seek to march south, scatter the Pack and establish a port on the southern trade route. Others look north and east, with ambitions towards the divided Colovian Estates; especially the vampire-run city of Skingrad that is an abomination to all faithful of Meridia. The Potentate, of course, is working to encourage only peace and prosperity for this young people**^(3)**.*

*….*

^(1)*They came close to telling the truth. All this talk from the nobles of “ancient empires” and “revived pasts” is just propaganda to unite the masses, no matter what province you find yourself in. It’s not like our own “High Excellency” actually gives a damn about the lost glories of the Septims or the sacred legacy of Akavir when his speeches are over.*

^(2)*Their military is huge, too big to be sustainable. The Knights are always looking for new land to conquer, and the “Adoni” are eager to please. Seems skirmishes are common, and their borders have a bad habit of shifting.*

^(3)*Yes, I’m sure.*