Chapter Draft: Orsinium (2/5/25)

*The history of the Great Free City of Orsinium begins in the early Fourth Era, with the sack of Nova Orsinium by High Rock and Hammerfell. Once a prospering and promising kingdom in the Iliac Bay, Nova Orsinium was reduced to rubble, its population slain or fled. Under the protection of Imperial troops, many Orcish refugees made their way east to Skyrim, where they found grudging acceptance by the Nords. Others yet wandered further afield, into Cyrodiil, mingling into the cities and countryside. In time, many Orcs would find employment and honorable service in the Legions, working as smiths, quartermasters, scouts and shock troops, with a few even rising through the ranks to become officers. In exchange for these selfless acts and fealty, the Mede Emperors saw fit to grant the Orcish people leave to establish a new Orsinium, guarded by the Seventh and Fifteenth Legions. And so the first foundations of Orsinium were laid in the Dragontails, on the border of Hammerfell and Skyrim.*

*From its inception, the Kingdom of Orsinium had a troubled existence. Few Orsimer saw fit to travel to their new homeland, preferring their strongholds in Skyrim and service in the Legions. A succession of weak rulers and deep cultural divides between the various groups of Orsimer who called the region home prevented the city-state from the success of Nova Orsinium. Abroad, Orsinium was regarded as illegitimate or nonexistent, not even recognized as a province by the Empire.*

*At the outset of the First Great War, the bulk of the Seventh and Fifteenth Legions were called to Cyrodiil to defend the Imperial Heartland. Through the course of the War, both legions were badly mauled, returning to Orsinium a shadow of their former selves. Combined with Hammerfell’s newfound independence, this lack of Imperial protection caused Orsinium to become increasingly insular. Never mind that Hammerfell’s internal strife prevented the Redguards from striking at the nascent city-state on their border, the perceived threat was enough for the Orsimer to draw inwards, building defensive lines throughout the mountains to the southwest.*

*The Second Great War saw the Seventh and Fifteenth Legions deployed yet again, bolstered by Orcish recruits. Throughout the years of the war, the Legions fought the breadth of Colovia, under the direct command of Attrebus II, cousin to the Emperor. At the war’s nominal end and outbreak of the Silver Plague, the Legions retreated to Orsinium once more, and never left.*

*The Silver Plague left Orsinium largely untouched, remote as it is. Indeed, Orsinium capitalized on the disorder in the north, expanding its borders as strongholds and proto-strongholds in Skyrim joined their brothers and sisters, and the savage Iron Orcs of Craglorn swore fealty to the free city. Wandering Orcs flocked to the banner of Orsinium, alongside Ogres and Goblins.*

*The Great Free City of Orsinium, as the rogue nation is now known, sprawls across the Dragontails from Craglorn to the Reach. With the Bjoulsae wilds of Hammerfell to the south, the Druadach Kingdom to the north and west, and the Kingdom of Wrothgar & Karth to the east, Orsinium is nearly inaccessible to traders.*

*Nor does the nation make itself accessible. For most, all that they will see of Orsinium is the border towns \- old strongholds once of Skyrim, chief among them the post of [[Dushnikh Yal]], the main port of entry to and trade with the Free City. Indeed, it is said that no outsiders have entered the city itself since the Plague. Free access to Orsinium is heavily restricted, only allowed to those deemed Blood-Kin \- a rare and dubious honor.*

*The existence of the Free City has in turn emboldened Orcish raiders. Those making their way along the coasts and rivers may encounter Orcish traders peddling wares carried upon the backs of Yaks, flying banners adorned with Daedric symbols. While these traders may seem honest, their goods are in truth stolen \- outlandish rumors of interplanar travel are simply that, rumors. It is believed that these traders belong to many small, scattered bands, raiding and trading amongst themselves and Orsinium to give the appearance of a single, united entity, projecting the image that Orsinium exerts an enormous reach across Tamriel, and the traders appear to have the backing of Orsinium, in turn protecting them from marauders. Any encounters in the Potentate are to be reported to the nearest Guard or East Empire Company outpost.*

-------------------------------------------------

*Let me tell you of my people’s homeland.*

*I was not born there, though my father was. He left long ago, over some dispute, and made for himself a new life here in the Potentate. It was here that he met my mother and I was born. Oftentimes, I wonder what my life would have been like if I, too, were Orsinium-born. I have been fortunate enough to visit a few times \- as Orc-ken, I am declared Blood-kin and welcomed, but this is a rare honor for outsiders.*

*Orsinium is a beautiful but harsh land, there among the Dragontails. Pastures for yak and great terraces built into mountain sides feed the people, and dwellings are more often than not built from stone, quarried and stacked without mortar. Roads wind through the valleys, and there are no signposts save for the great runes carved into cliff sides, by which foot travel and airship travel alike navigate.*

*Most outsiders will only ever see the border towns and strongholds, chief among them Dushnik Yal. It is here that most mundane trade is done - deals between Druadach and Orsinium for smiths and masons, between Wrothgaria and Orsinium for mutual defense, and between Snow-Throat and Orsinium for the ever-important whalebone, by which my father says the whaleships are made. Those not Blood-kin are not allowed deeper in, unless they hire guards and guides - a hostility that rankles many.*

*The people of Orsinium are divided. Most are Orsimer, like myself - but that is a broad category. “Iron Orcs, Stronghold Orcs, City Orcs, and Immigrant Orcs”, my father used to say. Four Orsiniums, always at each other's throats.*

*The Iron Orcs - the Osh Ornim - make Craglorn their home. Brutal folk, even for us Orsimer. And a brutal land they live in. Craglorn sits at the edge of the Bjoulsae Steppe, and suffers near-constant skirmishes with the horsemen. Airships are anchored at the peaks of every mesa and hill, watch-platforms for the dwellings below. It is said that even among the Orsimer, the greatest smiths and stonemasons come from the Osh Ornim - a saying that seems to hold true.*

*The Stronghold Orcs mainly make their homes along the eastern slopes of the Dragontails, in the lands of old Skyrim. Some call them the truest inheritors of Malacath’s visions and code - something the City Orcs would likely contest. Dushnikh Yal is the largest of these, nearly a city in its own right. The strongholds subsist off hunting, herding, the ores of their mines, and trade - for most of Tamriel, the strongholds and border towns are the gateway to Orsinium. For the free city, they are but a front, and a convenience - easier to make deals with Druadach, Wrothgaria, and Snow-Throat when your envoys do not appear where they should not be.*

*City Orcs. What to say? Inheritors of the grand dream of independence, made manifest. The Great Free City sits at the heart of the nation, a honeycomb carved and built from living rock, crawling up mountain sides, down valleys, delving deep into the stone. The mercenary dragon Nahfahlaar makes roost here, high above the airships and alleyways, the whalehouses of the Beseechers and the great arena.*

*And the Immigrant Orcs. I suppose I would be one of those, were I to make my home there. A people apart, living together. Too changed by the societies we came from, hoping to find a new home, living in imitation of the true Malacathi ways. Many make their living as herders and workers among the terraces and mountains, or in the City itself.*

*Besides Malacath’s folk, tribes of Ogres and Goblins have found homes in the mountains, finding acceptance here where it is scarce elsewhere. Even clans of men call Orsinium home, descendants of the Seventh and Fifteenth Legions who marched back to the city they were bade defend during the Plague and never left.*

*And, though my father would scarce speak of them, there are the Deep Orcs. The mage-Orcs, the engineers, the secret sects by whom the marvels of Orsinium are made. False Dwemer. False Orcs. Cowards and traitors, choosing to hide away in their bunkers and tunnels.*

*The Deep Orcs hold close the secrets of their engineering-magic, and Orsinium in turn holds them close. Their - our - secrecy is the reason the whaleships are yet hidden - constructs of whalebone and orichalc and more, wrapped in moth-silk and painted with runes and the sigils of Malacath. With these, Malacath’s domain of the Ashpit has become a gateway to all of Tamriel and realms beyond, bringing back strange and exotic wares, plying the sea-lanes along the coast to dock underwater out of sight. These traders can be found nearly anywhere - I’m told they have a particularly profitable arrangement with the Sanguine cultists of Port Katariah, whom they supply sacred beer and wine directly from the Prince’s own realm. Potent drink - it’ll cost you all the regrets in the world if you can find a spare bottle.*

*But most of all, the whaleships allow for communion with Malacath himself. The Beseechers - the mightiest warriors of all of Orsinium, the ruling council - travel to the Ashpit in great ships, and there enact ritual combat with Daedric beasts in arenas upon the skin of the whaleships. By this, they gain the right to commune with the God, who now rules his people by his own word and with his own hand. It is by this that Orsinium is unassailable, a fortress for our people.*

*I long for the day that I may visit the harsh and beautiful land again.*

*-Yzmul gra-Maluk*