When speaking about the old Imperial province of Hammerfell, it is impossible to avoid mentioning the eternal confrontation of the 'Crown' and 'Forebear' factions. For obvious reasons, the tensions between the initial wave of settlers and the Na-Totambu aristocracy were exploited by first the Remanian and then the Septim colonial administration. The narrative of the eternal confrontation between the 'tolerant and enlightened' (meaning absorbing the Colovian culture) Forebears and 'barbarous and conservative' Crowns became so pervasive that Na-Totambu nobility had in time made it a point of their pride.

It is no surprise then that the breakdown of this traditional opposition caused a deep cultural crisis in the contemporary Totambu society. But, perhaps, a more detailed historical excursion is necessary.

The short period after the First Great War and the secession of Hammerfell was a time of great unity. Brought together by the hatred both toward the aggressive Thalmor and the spineless Mede Empire, the whole diversity of the Hammerfell society welcomed the re-establishment of the ancient title of Elden Yokeda by the current High King. The urban Redguards of all persuasions, discharged Legionnaires (many of them not local), even diverse nomad tribes supported the militarization and the subsequent comprehensive Army reforms. For a span, it seemed that the Lhotunic project had triumphed.

The cracks had started to show even before the Second Great War. The High King died without issue, and his heir from the cadet branch of the family didn't quite share his views. Tracing his lineage from the ancient Phyllocid Dynasty, the prince was obsessed with restoration of the ancient glory of Yokuda. Forsaking the City of Sentinel, he had moved his capital to Hegathe, and crowned himself not as a High King, but as an Emperor.

The war itself shattered the illusion of the peace competely. 'Forebear' Imperial loyalists and former Legion soldiers urged to join on the side of the Mede Empire, while both the Emperor and the Elden Yokeda bid their time, although for different reasons. The reasons of the conflict became ultimately moot, as the Silver Plague had devastated the region just as any other. The reconquest of the 'Old Kingdom of Hammerfell' territories after the Plague ended had become known as the New Warrior Wave.

The kingdom had never returned to its old borders, however. Not only the 'Forebear' territories of southern Iliac Bay had resisted it in no uncertain terms, but many of the nomadic tribes of the desert had no desire to participate in the 'restoration of Hammerfell'.

Without the traditional opponents to unite against, the Na-Totambu 'Crown' faction splintered into several contradictory interpretations of what makes a Redguard.

The Elden Yokedas collaborated with the Temples of Sword-gods Diagna, Leki and Onsi, they tolerate most of other worships, including the ones that syncretize the attributes of their gods with those of other cultures. First among them, the Temple of Tu'whacca-Arkay on Stros M'kai is famous among the pilgrims. The other hybrid worships include Mara-Morhwa, Z'en-Zeht and Kenarthi-Tava of the wandering caravans. Even the secretive individual Sword-god cults in the Army take on the characteristic features of both the traditional Nord hero-cults and Ebonarm worship of Freehold.

The royal palace meanwhile works hard on reconstructing the original faith of Na-Totambu, excising the 'taint' of foreign worship with the iron hand. A new Temple of Satakal is led by an Archpriest, but considers the Emperor their ultimate spiritual leader. Among the latest innovations is the tax levied on 'false believers'. Fortunately, the doctrines of the Temple are amorphous and non-exclusive enough so that most don't make an issue of swearing to one more god.

Where the royalists explore the religion, the 'young Yokuda' faction of the current Elden Yokeda had chosen to rally around the language. Yoku, preserved in the last centuries only in the nomadic areas and remote settlements, made a comeback. Not only the whole military bureaucracy of the Army had switched to Yoku, but the practice of granting Yoku names and surnames have been used both as an award (when given with titles and ranks to the former 'ra' - soldiers) and as a punishment (when military governors summarily put everyone with Yoku-styled names on census of their provinces).