The people of the Reach are as divided as their land of hills, crags and serpentine rivers. Indeed, the very question of whether the Reachfolk are their own race, a unique strain of Bretons with a particularly mixed ancestry or a cultural grouping of Nords, Bretons, Redguards, Cyrodiils, Elves and even Orcs, still divides ethnographers. Some racial scholars even use them to argue that the common racial classification is flawed or even completely wrong.[^1] Whatever the case, Reachmen do share an identity and a history, both defined by constant struggles. Struggle against outsiders, against their land and against each other. Truly the people are in the image of their land: rough, violent, cruel and nigh-impossible to tame.

The identity of the first settlers of the region, Elves or Nedic humans, is still hotly debated as archeological evidence is unclear on the matter, but what is certain is that by the Late Merethic Era both groups were firmly established and had interbred considerably. The first historical mention of Reachmen comes to us from Khosey's *Tamrielian Tractates*, as they describe the Nordic King Vrage's conquest of the region: "...these Elf-blooded warriors, wielding spear in one hand and witch-art in the other, brave as any Child of Kyne, but heathen in faith and foul in nature." The natives of the Reach would then go unmetionned by history until the region was conquered by High Rock Altmer in 1E 385.^(2) From then on, Altmer (later Bretons) and Nords would constantly fight over control of the Reach for, despite its poor agricultural value, it holds vast mineral wealth (iron, orchiclachum and, above all, silver).

In the early eighth century, in order to escape retribution from Nords and Bretons alike, several clans settled the abandonned Dwarven city of Nchuand-Zel, which they renamed to [[Markarth]], after the river Karth. From then on, Markarth would be known as the "capital" of the Reach, inasmuch as such a savage people can be said to have one. Then came the Warrior Waves of the Redguards, which pushed the Nedes of Hammerfell, such as the Ket Keptu, into the southern parts of the Reach (modern day Craglorn) where they assimilated with the natives. Regardless of which kings claimed sovereignship over them, the native clans made a habit of raiding any settlement found within or close to what they considered their territory. A favorite target was the city of Evermore, founded in 1E 983 on the banks of the Bjoulsae by the River Horse Bretons.

The first real attempt to civilize the Reachmen came from Empress Hestra of Cyrodiil. Following her victory over the vampiric Grey Host, and High Rock's inclusion into the Empire, the Empress needed to secure the strip of land between Sunforge and the Dragon's Teeth Mountains which connected her holdings in Colovia and Rivenspire; this meant subduing the Reach. Her primary opponent in this struggle was a local rebel leader by the name of "Red Eagle" who, despite his complete failure, went on to become a legendary, even central, figure of Reach folklore, as their greatest warrior, the first one of them to ally with Hagravens and the first Briarheart warrior (see below). To administer this region, Hestra founded the city of Dragonstar (merging several minor settlements) in 1E 1032 and made kings several of her lieutenants. Despite the obvious benefits of Imperial civilization,^(3) scarcely a decade passed without the Empire having to put down a rebellion, at great cost, in the Reach until its collapse thirteen centuries later.

The Reachmen were the first enemy to fall before the might of Reman's new legions as the Army of Reman turned from defeating the Akaviri to conquering Tamriel. However Reman had no interest in letting his heirs and himself be mired in the struggle for control of the Reach and instiead decided to cleave the land in three parts. As he created the official Provincial division of the continent that the Empire would use into the Fourth Era, Reman divided the Reach between the Western Reach of High Rock, the Reach Hold of Skyrim and Upper Craglorn in Hammerfell, "giving" the lands to Bretons, Nords and Redguards (a Forebear family of Dragonstar was granted kignship of the region as reward for their loyalty), and giving the Reachfolk three enemies to defeat instead of one, and in doing so ensured that taxes would flow to Cyrodiil and that his vassals would remain occupied putting down his enemies. Reman Cyrodiil did more to pacify the Reach with words on parchments than the Alessians did with cohorts upon cohorts of soldiers. It is irony then, perhaps, that his Empire would, in the Second Era, fall under the rule of Reachmen.

Though short-lived, the "Longhouse Dynasty" of Reachmen Emperors that ruled Cyrodiil during the Interregnum is an important landmark in the history of the Reach as unprecendeted wealth flowed to the region and many clans began to adopt rough forms of Cyrodiilic culture, leading to the division between the "Imperialized" and "Wilder" clans. Ultimately the Longhouse Emperors were destroyed by Colovian Rebels and it would take centuries for the Reach to once again coalesce into a proper fighting force, just in time to fall before the might of Tiber Septim at the battle of Old H'roldan.^(4) Under the Third Empire, the "Imperialization" of the Reachfolk continued, such that more and more of them abandonned their barabric customs and worship, to become proper Imperial citizens. The rest by contrast, embraced their dark heritage to a sadistic extent, perpetrating veritable campaign of terrors on the settlements of the region.

Following the [[Tibedetha Incident]] of 4E 203, the Druadach mountains underwent earthquakes of unprecedented magnitude, accompanied by a veritable epidemic of lycanthropy. The chaos of the region was only magnified by the advent of the [[Silver Plague]], which the Wilder clans interpreted as a gift from the Daedra Lord Peryite. Fanatics deliberetaly sought to contract the disease so that they could spread it among their "enemies", multiplying the death toll and creating a climate of paranoia among the survivors. In 4E 227, a warlady by the name of [[Melusa Swordclaw]] managed to unite the clans of the Western Reach and take over Evermore after a bloody campaing against both Bretons and River-Nomads. Markarth followed in 4E 235, whereupon Melusa crowned herself Ard (queen) of Markarth and founder of the Druadach Kingdom. The third major city of the Kindgom, Dragonstar, fell in 4E 251. The Kingdom reached its maximal expansion with the taking of Jehenna in 4E 280 which Greater Wrothgar and Karth retook twelve years later, leading to it stabilizing into the borders that still more-or-less stand to this day.

This violent history easily explains the Reachmen's obession with "freedom" (by which they mean a dogged refusal to let go of outdated customs and a refusal to compromise on the smallest of issues), which has caused the successive Ards a great deal of troubles when it comes to making those disparate people work together. The most obvious point of contention is, predictably, religious as Bretons, Cyrodiils and most Nords follow the Imperial Pantheon, the Wilders the "Old Gods" and a minority of Nords, Orcs and Redguards their respective cultural deities. To alleviate this issue, the government preaches the so-called "Melusan Truth", which claims all those gods are but guises taken on by primal spirits that somehow integrates the wanton brutality of the most barbaric of Daedra with the grace of the gentlest of Aedra.^(5) Taking clear inspiration from the Rebirth of Saint Nerevar, the Ards also claim to be the reincarnation of Red Eagle, in order to cash in his wide appeal.

The smallest administrative unit of the Kingdom is the clan (*de jure* clans were created for the non-Reachmen citizens of the Kingdom such as the "Karthwasten Nords") which can range in size from a few dozens to a few thousands members. Each clan has its own traditions and a chieftain (who is responsible for the collection of taxes and the enforcement of laws), usually picked by popular support (though hereditary chieftains exist). The Ard of Markarth is Chief of Chiefs and passes this position to his or her eldest child, but maybe challenged for the right to rule by any chief, or be deposed by the Hroldan Council. This council, made up of priests and *vateshrans* (bards), which serves as the highest arbiter of law in the land, gathers under the auspices of the "Lord of Ash and Bone". This mostly sensible system is undercut by the fact that any individual who gathers a large enough following may create their own new clan and that clans are not obligated to recognize the authority of the king, creating constant political instability as clans fight each other for prominence.^(6)

Throughout the Kingdom's history, the Ards have endeavoured to built a modern nation, launching ambitious agricultural and mining projects, which have systematically been met with hostility by the Wilders on religious grounds. But the most controversial of the Ards decision, is their alliance with the "three monsters of the Reach"^(7): Lycanthrope, Hagraven and Briarheart, which they use to counter the spellswords, dragon-monks and sword-singers of their neighouring kingdoms. Hircine (or the "Tricky Hunter") is the most popular god of the Reach, and therefore his progeny the manbeasts, are not as reviled among the Reachfolk as they are among more reasonable people. Werewolf, wereboar and werebear "packs", ranging from a handful to a couple dozen of individuals, freely roam the kingdom in exchange for their help in war. A number of foreign packs take advantage of this complacency to hunt in the Yokedate, the Iliac, Greater Wrothgar, Orsinium or Colovia before fleing beyond the border to avoid pursuit. Hagravens are wild witches who have used corrupt Daedric magics to turn themselves into half-birds abominations who wield very potent destruction magic. They are consumed by a need to destroy and defile nature, prompting to the most morally bankrupt of Wilder clans to place themselves under their leadership. Most infamously, they know the secret of the "Briarheart" ritual, where the heart of a sacrificial victim is replaced with a briar, creating a very powerful undead, slavishly loyal to his new mistress. That the honour guard of the Ard is made entirely of such cursed creatures serves as a potent reminder that the "civilization" of the Imperialized Reachmen does not run deep.^(8)

Markarth is the largest city of the kingdom, it controls and exploits the largest silver desposits of the region. Its Great Temple was formally the Nordic Temple of Dibella and many traditionalist Nords still make pilgrimage there, despite it now being dedicated to both her and Hircine. Despite the city being built atop ancient Dwarven ruins, the Ards have always forbidden its exploration or exploitation, with only their own honour guard being allowed to make use of Dwarven arms and armors. This edict is allegedly due to the presence of a large tribe of Falmer in the under-city. Worryingly, a number of Reachmen warriors have begun incorporating Falmer weapons into their equipment.

Evermore, the second largest city of the Kingdom has suffered from the collapse of northern trade, but has found a new purpose in being the main agricultural producer of the kingdom. It is also the home of Witchlore Academy, an institution that, in addition of teaching modern magics, studies the crude, devoid of analytical and theoretical framework but nonetheless potent hedge magic of the Reach's witches, witch-men, gravesingers, firecallers, water-singers, beastmasters, flesh-tenders rock-dancers, etc.

The third largest city is Dragonstar, which is now an important mercantile stop for the carvans of the northernmost Mother-Navigators, the Baandari Peddlers, the Bank of Z'en and most especially the merchants of Orsinium. But Dragonstar's main claim to fame is its exploitation of Nirncrux (commonly called Red brittle) which is used in particular enchantments. It is even speculated that the clans of dragonstar are attmepting to create ersatz Briarhearts, without Hagraven involvments through the use of Nirncrux.

The village of Old Hroldan surrounds a circle of *menhirs* (standing stones) dating back the the Merethic Era and that the Reachmen believe to be their most holy place. While it is specifically dedicated to "the Lord of Ash and Bone" most priests are formed there.

The citadel of Sungard seats at the intersection of the borders of the kingdom, Greater Wrothgar and Orsinium. As such it is heavily fortified in case of Nordic attack (it has already weathered three sieges) and its walls are adorrned with both Reachfolk and Orcish symbols.

The Orcish Stronghold of [[Mor Khazgur]] is the northernmost settlement of the Druadach Kingdom. Because of this relative isolation, the orcs there consider themselves more akin to allies of the Reach than members and have on occasion become a baronny of Greater Wrothgar. However they have strong economic ties with Markarth as their great forges are the most productive of the entire kingdom.

*1. Sure, and Orcs were born of Boethiah's dung...*  
*2. "Unmentionned" heh? What about the "Breton" mercenaries that joined Alessia's revolt in early 243, before Vrage did the same? I suppose "unmentionning" them means you don't have to mention how the Empire treated them.*  
*3. Mainly having your land strip-mined for silver.*  
*4. Naturally, no mention of the links between Reman's father, King Hrol and Hroldan (or should I say Hrol's Den?) nor of the ancestry of Talos's predecessor, King Cuhlecain, he-of-the-not-so-Colovian-name.*  
*5. Yeah, because we in the Potentate are such champions of religious purity...*  
*6. They take an inordinate amount of pride in the Ard "not being a King" because they can "chose" not to serve him. But any clan that refuse his protection tend to get piled on by the others as there's no consequence to raiding them without honoring the local war customs.*  
*7. Pretty sure the author just made that title up.*  
*8. Got to agree on the werevolves (hell, I hear the current Ard himself has wereboar blood) and the Hagravens. I've only met one of those once, when our ship had to make an emergency stop in some uninhabited creek in Reich Gradkeep and this ... ground harpy starts throwing fireballs at us for "trespassing" on her land. But the Briarhearts? I don't think they're undead, I mean, I've seen one drink soup! But they are* very *creepy, they always seem to look through you somehow.*

[^1]: Sure, and Orcs were born of Boethiah's dung ...
