The fall of the Aldmeri Dominion and the rise of the Sapiarchy does not start with a fixed date: some cite the Tibedetha Incident which caused mass protest and unrest across the Summerset Isles, others give credit to the Goblin rebellions in Eton Nir and elsewhere, others still cite the Bloodtoil Uprising and the thinning of Dominion forces during the Second Great War, and none can deny that the Dominion always had internal dissent going back to the Stormcrown Interregnum. Regardless, the effect was the same. By 4E 207, the remaining Thalmor officials who had not already deserted their posts or died due to riots and in-fighting locked themselves in Alinor Palace, leaving the rest of their country to fend for itself. The Anarchy, as this period is called, was a war of all against all lasting thirty years and saw Auridon divorce itself from Alinor as nobles, ex-Thalmor, and ex-military squabbled over land and resources. The Silver Plague only exacerbated the madness.

The one bastion of sanity was the College of Sapiarchs near Lilandrill. Already insular and quarantined from the outside world, they mostly avoided the Plague and the anarchic chaos. The Sapiarchs, realizing the unrest could negatively impact research at the College, elected a First Sapiarch of Governance and an Assistant Sapiarch of War to enact a campaign of law-bringing across the Summerset Isle. The First Sapiarch moved into Alinor Palace with a council of advisors, cleaning up the remains of the dead Thalmor they discovered inside. Assistant Sapiarchs of Governance were distributed throughout the Isle to manage the other major cities. Satisfied with their work, most Sapiarchs settled into their towers to resume the “more important” project of studying the Aurbis.

...

*Yzmul: It was before my time of course, but I wonder how honest they're being about the so-called "Anarchy." Sure is convenient for the Potentate and the Sapiarchs that commoners can't govern themselves. Thirty years of riots? How would there be anything left to govern?*

*...*

Alinor City remains the official capital, receiving embassies from other polities, but lawlessness rules the streets. Infrastructure is failing, potholes dotting every street and ports haven to gangs. The Sapiarch's fifteen-year plan of economic distribution seems to use grossly outdated census data, and the Alinori City Guard are powerless and under-funded. The First Sapiarch has promised to deal with these issues, but they fall low on the agenda list after topics such as "Determine the Laws of Divine Transcendence or Disintegration" and "Disprove the Mankariite Daedric Mundus Hypothesis."

Lillandril, being the "true" capital closer to the College, is nearly spotless and immaculate - if lacking in basic freedoms. All citizens are assigned occupations based on aptitude tests when they reach adulthood and are tested again every fifteen years, while a committee of economic planning ensures everyone has what they need and nothing more. The Illumination Academy remains the premier learning institution in Alinor for the “common” people, and future Sapiarchs are generally selected from their most accomplished alumni. They have recently opened their doors to Goblin students, much to the displeasure of older Sapiarchs who fear what might happen should a Goblin score high enough on an aptitude test to be admitted as an acolyte in the College of Sapiarchs itself.

The city of King’s Haven nestled in the northern mountains is made up primarily of Goblins, who emancipated themselves and built a new society based on equality and respect for nature. Indeed, despite their mastery of enchanting far exceeding their former Thalmor overlords, souldust pollution is not a problem in King’s Haven. Their runes are powered not by souls, blood, varliance, or even tonal manipulation. They instead focus and direct Padomaic creatia that radiates from Oblivion into their powerful inscriptions through a special technique of daedronmancy they refuse to share with outsiders for fear of misuse. They also have a proud chivalric tradition through the King’s Haven Welkynars, a sect of air-knights who do battle upon griffins, wielding lances or magical crossbows. They have not seen a real war since the Anarchy, but maintain a strong reputation among the people of Alinor regardless.

Rellenthil has always been a hotspot for artists and political radicals, who flourished after the fall of the Thalmor. The Assistant Sapiarch who “officially” governs the city spends all of his time at the College. Instead, day-to-day governance is managed by a series of worker-owned guilds. An actor and bard guild called the House of Reveries, previously outlawed by the Third Dominion for "subversive activity," was revived even more radical than before and has spawned a host of imitators. The House of Healing, the House of Glasswrights, the House of Tailoring, and so on. Unlike the respectable guilds of the Potentate, these "houses" tend to let anyone join and submit to mob rule. A faction of radicals called the Beautiful hold the most sway here, wearing garish costumes and strange masks and preaching the mad ideals of free love and common property, right under the nose of the clueless Sapiarch. All of the nearby mines, teeming with malachite, are barely used, wasted on frivolous art or fruitless experiments instead of advancing commercial prosperity. Most villages follow Rellenthil's model, especially in the more rural parts of the Isles.

...

*Yzmul: I let a crewmate talk me into seeing a play at the House of Reveries while we were docked in Alinor. Pretentious gibberish, I didn't understand what it was even supposed to be about. Still, I think their guild system sounds better than the rich old guildmasters who spend all their days brown-nosing nobles on the Elder Council.*

*...*

Shimmerene was hit particularly hard by the Silver Plague, and the “City of Lights” is now more properly dubbed the “City of Ghosts.” What traffic remains in the city consists of soldiers and cadets marching about in their glistening white military uniforms. The Sapiarch’s Battle Fleet docks most of its ships in Shimmerene’s harbor, overseen by Morlia of Skywatch, the Assistant Sapiarch of War. Her ships do “practice drills” around (and sometimes flying over) Republic ships in the Auridon Strait. Morlia’s desire to “liberate” her homeland from the patrician families is practically an open secret, but the majority of Sapiarchs prefer peaceful isolationism and do what they can to prevent a war. Morlia and the Dominion military defectors she won over played an important role in ending the Anarchy, and that has prevented her complete dismissal despite the controversy.