As you go north from [[Falkreath]] by the Legion road, you may see the most idyllic landscape - chapels with stained-glass windows, quaint villages, vast fields of lavender and flowers, hedged by the snowberry bushes, with the frost-resistant nord wheat only rarely interspersed here and there. Those alchemical ingredients, together with the rare furs, are the main export of the northern kingdom, and the landowners steadily grow rich by trade. You can see the signs of the prosperity in the rebuilt castles, the mantained road itself, the occasional imported enchanted device here and there.

The capital city of [[Solitude]] is steadily amassing more and more visitors who like to see how life was back in the age of Septims. It is quiet and sparsely populated, compared to the trade cities of the southern seas. The port had reopened not so long ago, and the sea trade is slow, but many of the city mansions are bought out by the foreign merchants, which can only be a good thing for the prosperity of the city.

The main square of the city is decorated with the dual statue of the Queens Elisif and Gwynienne, the founders of the realm. The Blue Palace is the dwelling of the current King and his retinue, although the court is held there only in the coldest months of winter - the rest of the time the monarch wanders across the land, imposing on the hospitality of his vassals.

The great [[Solitude Seminary]] of the Divines occupies the castle Dour and the neighboring quarters, and is the prime learning institution of the Kingdom not only in the theology, but in the applied magic as well. The rigid traditionalism of the Temple had kept the practice of magic even more conservative, bound to the outdated paradigm of the Schools, than that of the barbarian engineers of the [[College of Winterhold]]. Most of the practitioners you meet in the Kingdom would be educated here as the lay members of the Temple, if not priests, calling to Mara and Stendarr for Restoration, Dibella for Illusion, Arkay for Mysticism, Julianos for Conjuration, Zenithar for Alteration, and Kynareth and Akatosh for Destruction.

If you go off the beaten track, you would delve deeper into the past. The fields there grow only enough food to feed the baronies themselves. The hill-forts are not the modern massive earthworks, but the ancient constructions of dry stone, looking as if the Atmorans just finished stacking them. Unlike the uniformed retinues guarding the baronies on the trade routes, only the thane-baron himself and several men-at-arms would have any weapon or armor, many of it dating centuries back and carefully maintained.

Going deeper into the hills and forests, you would meet even more strange things. Sometimes, there would be no thane-barons, with the people calling an Orc or Riekr chief their Lord. The chapels of the Divines grow rarer, with only the itinerant priests bringing the light of Aedra to the countryside. Where they do not reach, older and darker religions rule. Covens, witch circles, hedge spirit-speakers - dark and uneducated practitioners lead the spiritual life of the local villagers, mixing the oral traditions kept since the Nedic times with the most blatant superstitions. A push-and-pull relation with the Daedra Lords define those religions, where the deals and trades are mixed with the wards and banishment. Hircine, the Huntmaster, and his werewolves, seem to be the most common threat to be warded against.

Even weirder will the things turn out if you go west and south. There, in the mountains of Wrothgar and King's Guard, the rule of the Queens and Kings of Solitude doesn't reach, no thane-barons have a grant to rule and protect the land. The sorcerer-knights of the Iliac Bay are similarly uninterested in the mountain villages, so the inhabitants are left to fend for themselves. There, in the forgotten corners, on the barely enforced borders, people defer to the [[Druids]] as the main religious, magical, and even political authority. Those wander from village to the village, or live in the remote groves, and seem to offer the advice, help, or even an occasional blessing.

The author isn't such a specialist in the ancient Breton faiths to tell whether this faith or cult has any relation to the legendary Druids of Galen. The only one I have seen seemed half-mad, speaking in cryptic sentences, and hobbling on the malformed clubfoot - which looked like a hoof from the distance. Maybe, like such primitive religions tend to, they see such inborn defects to be the touch of the divine, the [[Slumber]] as they call it - which I can only understand as the title of Y'ffre.

Maybe that custom gave origin to the rumors that the Druids loose their human shape in stages, growing hooves, and horns, and wings, and tentacles, until they willingly bury themselves and wander beneath the mountains as shapeless Wyrms. That I cannot tell, but what I have understood from the club-footed one babbling, is that they deny the existence of the soul and the afterlife, despite the ample evidence, and strive to join the Slumber, dying in spirit without dying in body.

However that may be, and maybe despite those weird cults and not because of them, the mountains are unusually fertile - the author was treated to the fresh sun-ripened fruit and simple, but heady and sweet jazbay wine where the lowland villages had only potatoes, beans and weak ale to offer. The smuggling with the Iliac also seems to be thriving, as I have seen occasional enchanted tools, some of them of the Elvish moonstone, in the village houses. Nothing expensive or rare, but strange so far off the established trade routes.