Almost every river in Eastern Tamriel flows through Argonia. As the land sinks into the sea for miles upon miles of dense vegetation and murky swamps, fauna and flora unseen anywhere else on Nirn thrive. Nicknamed the “garbage heap of Tamriel”, the Black Marsh is a strange and mysterious land, home to an even stranger and more mysterious folk. It is a harsh land: the air is fetid and heavy with disease, roads left unattended for mere days vanish overnight, the omnipresent vegetation makes all but the lightest of boats inoperable and many travelers simply disappear without a trace. Meanwhile, the native lizard-folfk, commonly called “Argonians”, or *Saxhleel* in their own tongue, come in a variety of forms, the deeper into the Marsh the stranger: from the “common” bipedal lizard-man to the hulking needle-toothed naga, to the toad-like paatru. These differences are attributed to the Hist, the spore-trees worshipped by Argonians and who they believe shaped their people in the beginning of Time out of mindless lizards (hence the literal meaning of *Saxhleel:* “People of the Root”).

The Argonians boast of being the most ancient civilization of Tamriel, enslaving entire tribes of primitive beastfolk, erecting pyramids and performing bloody sacrifices to Sithis, the primordial Darkness, even before the Elves left the shores of Aldmeris. This gruesome empire was ruled by the *Nisswo*\-kings, a priestly caste obsessed with appeasing their ever-ravenous god with endless sacrifices. And yet, for most of their history the Argonians have not been the masters of their lands. Indeed, in the waning days of the Early Merethic Era, a still not clearly understood combination of internal strife, ecological shifts, religious schisms and defeats at the hands of the more advanced newcomers, together known as “the Duskfall”, spelled the doom of this proto-Empire of the East.

The Argonians scattered into numerous, often hostile, tribes and abandoned the notion of civilization, instead embracing impermanence, thus their traditional architecture and tools are all made to be discarded and destroyed by the relentless corrosive power of the Marsh, while the older *xanmeer* ziggurats were left to sink under the waters. Even their understanding of Sithis changed, from an embodiment of inescapable death and destruction to the herald of change and rebirth. Which is not to say that no civilization existed in Argonia in the Late Merethic and First Eras, but rather that it was others who took up the burden of taming the land. In the West, the Barsaebic Ayleids, fleeing religious persecution in Cyrodiil, founded the cities of Silyanorn and Twyllbek (modern-day Stormhold and Gideon). The Cantemiric Velothi, splinters of the Chimeri Exodus, built Archon and Thorn on the East coast. The South was home to a nomadic fox-people, the Lilmothiit, whose temporary settlements evolved into the cities of Lilmoth, Blackrose and Soulrest. Finally, human tribes from both Tamriel and Akavir settled the area, such as the Kothringi, the Yespest, the Orma and the Horwalli. Tragically these many people did not share the Argonians’ fabled resistance to diseases and the Thrassian Plague and Khnahaten Flu wiped out these ancient cultures leaving us only their ancient cities to know them by.

For centuries, Argonia’s political fracture and inhospitable environment have made it a prime target for slave-raids and a haven for pirates of all stripes. It wasn’t until the eleventh century of the First Era that Hestra, the warrior-Empress, brought some semblance of order to the region after her defeat of the infamous pirate “king” Red Bramman. But it was Reman the Second who brought Black Marsh into the Imperial fold in 1E 2837 after twenty-six years of war, consolidating its northern and Eastern territories into an Imperial Province. This feat would only be surpassed by Tiber Septim’s conquest of all of Argonia’s surrounding coastline, with the hellish Inner Marsh remaining the Great Emperor’s sole undefeated foe.^(1)

All Imperial efforts to tame the land and bring modern agricultural and industrial techniques to the natives remained fruitless outside of the border cities. Yet, when the Oblivion Crisis came, Black Marsh fared much better than other Provinces. Military historians are unanimous in attributing that success to the environment, as deadly to Dagonite Cultists and dremora as it was to Imperial Legionnaries, and the Province’s low importance in the schemes of the Daedra. Yet the *An-Xileel*, a group of fanatics operating out of the city of [[Helstrom]], deep in the least accessible parts of the Marsh, convinced the populace they were their saviors and lead an uprising against the Empire, forming the modern Kingdom of Argonia. They then took advantage of the Dunmer’s weakness following the Red Year by launching a full invasion of Morrowind, known as the Accession War, in revenge for millennia of slave raids. Under the xenophobic heel of the An-Xileel, the campaign was of an unprecedented brutality^(2) and entire defenseless populations were put to the sword. The Argonian eventually retreated to Black Marsh without a real battle, when the House Redoran, who had been spared the worst of the Red Year, started to organize a defense.

The *An-Xileel* bloodlust did not stop there, however. While the true events of the “Umbriel Crisis” of 4E 42 remain unclear, it has been firmly established that the *An-Xileel* took advantage of the Floating City’s apparition to carry out an ethnic cleansing of their lands, slaughtering non-Argonians and *Lukiul* (“Imperialized”) Argonians alike. This eventually prompted a revolt against their tyranny and a more moderate government was put in place.

The Argonians’ famed resistance to disease served them well during the Silver Plague and their Kingdom was the one polity who not only did not crumble but instead thrived from the catastrophe (resurrecting some of the old libel that blamed the Khnahaten Flu on the Argonians).^(3) Indeed, the Kingdom expanded North and East annexing large swathes of southern Resdayn and the Niben Valley. However, while their attention was directed elsewhere, Sload migrants took over their southernmost city, Lilmoth through necromancy and deception and have renamed it "[[New Thras]]". Since then, the Kingdom has been stuck in a three-way struggle with the Potentate and Resdayn over influence and control of Eastern Tamriel while cautiously watching the Sloads’ next move.

Politically, the Kingdom of Argonia is a confederation of tribes living in the Black Marsh, and each ranging from a few dozens to a few thousand members; as well as the great foreign-built cities of the borders and the villages that dot the conquered lands. While maps often show the Black Marsh as entirely within the control of the Kingdom, many tribes have not federated with it, especially in the Southern and Eastern regions. Each tribe is ruled by a chieftain whose power is subject to popular approval, usually advised by a Tree-minder although the positions are often merged as well. Tree-minders are one of the two main priestly orders of the Argonians. As the name implies, they are tasked with taking care of the tribe’s Hist tree and to interpret the visions they allegedly receive from them. The cities are ruled by hereditary *Saxhlords*, in the manner of Cyrodiilic counts, while smaller communities use varying modes of governance, often electing a mayor or a town’s council every few years, although hereditary rule is not unfrequent. Each of these different groups sends representatives to the “Marsh councils”, local assemblies that gather regularly in the cities and whenever an issue between tribes arises in the Marsh. Citizenry is divided into two classes: first there are the *Saxhleel*, the Argonians themselves, and below them the *Beekojel*, “Friendly outsiders”, mostly from the Niben and Arnesia and who have many rights denied to them: their communities are not allowed representation in the Marsh Councils, they are not allowed to gather in public, to practice certain professions or to own land and they pay higher taxes.^(4)

A “Great Council of the Marsh” serves as the government of the Kingdom. Envoys from a majority of tribes, villages and cities (though never all of them, for practical reasons) pass laws and entrusts certain individuals with specific missions (such as generalship over an army in order to defend a given region). The Grand Council is presided over by the King of Argonia, who by tradition takes the name of *Histwo*, Speaks-for-the-Hist. The title of King (or Queen) of Argonia is an inadequate translation, as the King does not have any power over the Grand Council’s decisions. While his opinion holds a great weight, as he allegedly speaks the will of the Hist themselves, his role is to manage the debate and cast a tie-breaking vote. He does, however, have the power to decide where and when the Grand Council gathers, essentially deciding who will be in attendance.^(5) Furthermore, the King does not rule for life nor is the position hereditary. Indeed, it seems that the only requirement is to be an Argonian from the deep marsh and, in the course of the Kingdom’s history, a number of decrepit old people, children and even on one occasion, an egg^(6), were picked to be King. The selection process, as well as the way the length of the “term” is decided, is kept secret but is known to involve a gathering of Helstrom’s tree-minders, the advice of the precedent King, the lengendary "Eye of Argonia", and an assembly of the most respected *Nisswo.* Finally, the King is known to commend the loyalty of the [[Shadowscales]], an order of assassin-priests with historic ties to the infamous [[Dark Brotherhood]] who work to silence those who would oppose his decrees, usually lethally.

[[Nisswoism]], which is to say a religion focused on the worship of the Primordial Principle Sithis, but lacking scripture, an organized clergy or even an established creed, is the main cult of the Black Marsh. The *[[Nisswo]]*, or “Nothing-Speakers”, are nomadic priests, travelling from village to city to village, each preaching their own interpretation of Sithis and the proper way to honor it. They hold considerable influence over the Argonians’ minds, but their own order, the [[Clutch of Nisswo]], reflects the division of the people. There are three movements within the cult: the Swamp, Blood and Stone Nisswo. These are only informal names as they describe loose sets of beliefs rather than political organizations and many Argonians do not strictly adhere to either.

The Swamp Nisswo are the orthodoxy and still the largest group. They revere Sithis as the Changer, who gives and takes in equal measure. They preach impermanence in all things and isolationism for Argonia. Despite being the largest grouping of Nisswo, they are not as influential on the Kingdom's politics as the other two because a lot of their followers belong to tribes who didn't join it. The Blood Nisswo wish to bring Argonia back to the time of the Nisswo-Kings and worship Sithis as the Destroyer, who must be appeased with frequent rituals and sacrifices. They preach the importance of struggle and an aggressive foreign policy especially where Resdayn and the Potentate are concerned. Finally, the Stone Nisswo, who revere Sithis as the Hatcher who brings forth new ways and ideas, are modernists. They preach the acceptance of foreign customs (like cities and modern engineering) and a relaxed approach to foreign policy. They are most popular among the Lukiuls and the Beekojels.

There are eight major cities in Argonia.

**[[Stormhold]]**, in the North-West, produces much of the Province’s mineral wealth which is then transported to the rest of the kingdom via waterways. The city’s second claim to fame is the Kingdom’s premier magical institute: *Tohthux-Tzel*, “The Place of Secret Snakes”, housed within a xanmeer that is said to change locations^(7), sometimes "visiting" another city entirely. The *Tohthuxleel* focus on studying shadowmagic as well as so-called “Hist magic”, but they are also known to organize large archeological expeditions into both Elven and Argonian ruins seeking to master the ancient powers of the past.

**[[Thorn]]** and **[[Tear]]** in the North-East are collectively known as the “Jewels of the East”, sitting on opposite sides of a bay, both cities have traded with each other for as long as they have existed, despite their conflictual relationship. Indeed, Tear used to be the capital of the slave-drivers of House Dres, who often seized control of Thorn to ensure the flow of fresh bodies to their plantations. Nowadays, Thorn serves as headquarters to Argonia’s navy while Tear as become a fortress city, constantly engaged in skirmishes with raiders from [[Resdayn]]. Tear’s infamous slave market, the largest and most bloody of its kind in all of Tamriel’s history, was razed during the Accession War. Today stands in its place a colossal statue of an Argonian warrior, clad in the armor of the An-Xileel, stomping the face of a Dunmeri noble.

**[[Gideon]]**, the westernmost city of the kingdom, is also the most modern, as almost all of its population embraced imperial values. Uniquely the Saxhlords of the city, are not Argonians, but Nibeneans who took arms against the Empire in the Early Fourth Era. They claim descent from the Kothringi and seek to emulate that ancient culture, most prominently by wearing slivery body-paint and feathered hats. As part of that “kothringi revival” the city sponsors large temples dedicated to Dibella and Zenithar (or Z’en). Indeed, the ancient Trade-Abbey of Zenithar within the Blackwood is protected by Gideon and is one of the [[Bank of Zenithar]]’s largest trade centers in the South.

**Helstrom**, the seat of the King of Argonia, lies in the center of Middle Argonia, according to the Geographical Society’s best estimates. Not only is the city forbidden to outsiders, the swamp itself makes it practically impossible for any non-Argonian to enter it, as the very air carries deadly diseases. Legends abound of Argonian of even stranger shape than those already attested (six-limbed, gigantic or looking like grey-skinned humans). The most reliable account of the city at our disposal is the diary of Luciannus Tenns, Ambassador of the Thonican Regency to Black Marsh.^(8)

**Archon,** situated on the Eastern coast, Archon is the least populated of the Marsh’s cities, subsisting mostly on fishing and the coming and going of trading vessels along the Eastern route. However, in recent years Archon has served as the launching point of a number of Argonian expeditions into the Padomaic Ocean. Despite Potentate experts certifying that the Argonian ships are incapable of reaching the first of the Padomaic Isles, the kingdom has deliberately allowed rumors of trade with Akavir to spread.^(9) Archon’s main point of interest is the Shadowscale Citadel, the headquarters and training facility of the King’s thugs. Situated in an ancient Cantemiric temple to Mephala, the Forstress is topped by a gruesome statue of the Daedra of murder sinisterly overlooking the city.

**Soulrest** was once the Imperial capital of the Province. Thanks to its position on the Eastern Bank of the Topal Bay, it is a bustling trade-port, and home to the greatest shipyards of the South (threatened only by the rapidly developing Port Katariah). Unfortunately for the locals, this wealth has attracted more and more attention from the Baandari pirates, which have begun establishing secret harbors in the Marsh. Soulrest is also famous for being the religious center of the Brotherhood of Sethiete, a cult mixing elements of Nedic Lorkhan-worship with Nisswoism.

**Blackrose**’s main source of income are its salt marshes, a crucial necessity in the warm climes of the south. But it is most well-known for the infamous Blackrose Fortress. Originally built as a prison by the Empire, this tower now serves as the Kingdom’s bulwark against their southern neighbors, the Sload of New Thras. Unlike the rest of Argonia, the city and the surrounding areas are ruled by military officers, with almost no civilian authority. While the brutish Nagas, native to Murkmire where the city lays, make up most of its military, they are joined by volunteers from all over the nation.


___
  


 *1. Of course, no mention of Hestra's defeat against Indoril during the War for Silyanorn or how Reman's conquest involved "the Great Burn" which set the western half of Black Marsh on fire for three long years.*

*2. Bah, like the Tiber Wars were all smiles and candies. The Argonians' brutality in the War of Accession was, unfortunately, not unique in the history of Tamriel.*

*3. At least, the Guide admits that it is libel. Can't say that of all the "reputable publications" these days.*

*4. Painting with too wide a brush, the rights of the beekojels vary from case to case. Generally speaking the humans in the West are treated much better than the Dunmer in the North, and there are "historical beekojels" whose families sided with the Kingdom against the Empire, or are otherwise so assimiliated into the province that they are treated pretty much as equals with the Saxhleel, legally speaking, they usually call themselves "Argonians" too.*

*5. There seems to be a number of limitations on the King's power to decide that, actually. I don't know what the law is, but as far as I understand from talking about it with a few dockworkers from Archon, it seems to ensure every region is consulted about as often as the others.*

*6. Right, the egg-king allegedly ruled through an interpreter who translated the pecks he made against the inside of his shell into decree. I think we can all take a pretty good guess as to who was actually in charge, though.*

*7. Read: there are no consistent paths within the Marsh.*

*8. Ridiculous! By his own account Tenns spent his entire stay there wracked by fever and spent the rest of his life moving from one mental institution to the next. This is what passes for reliable scholarship, but my contributions are refused!? What next, one of those "authentic" journals of the Eternal Champion perhaps? The truth is that we don't know what Helstrom looks like, it could be a single xanmeer or a classic Argonian village or perhaps even just a sacred clearing where the priests meet.*

*9. I have a hard time believing the Argonians established a relationship with the Akaviri as well. But it's absurd to deny they have reached at least Yneslea, perhaps even Esroniet. Their shipyards have had access to captured Imperial oceanic ships for a long time and there's no other way to explain the flood of Tsaesci artifacts I've seen in Archon.*