If Skyrim’s Civil War weakened the bonds of society in Skyrim, the Silver Plague broke them. Already stressed by economic failure, civil unrest, war, dragons, vampires, and religious upheaval, the arrival of the Silver Plague quickly fractured the north. People abandoned their cities en masse, returning to the ancient wandering ways; long-distance trade collapsed, the authority of Jarls shrank and vanished. To survive in the face of this, new bonds were formed: Nordic towns and villages, Orcish strongholds, and Giantish camps began to trade, wandering Voice-using monks helped to establish peace, and slowly, ever so slowly, a new order was formed.

The Snow-Throat Commonwealth is the result of this chaos. The ancient Nordic system of moots has been revived at every level, the authority of Jarls and Kings decreased, and Dragon Monks serve as neutral arbiters of justice. Small, local town moots are formed from respected locals or elected members of the community, who then send representatives to the hold moot in the hold capital. From there, representatives attend the Great Moot every summer alongside the Jarls at the capital of Ivarstead, chosen in theory for its proximity to the Throat of the World, but mostly for being equally inconvenient to everyone.

The Great Moot is Snow-Throat’s national legislative body. At the Moot, the Jarls of the holds select a High King from among their number, who can be removed by a simple majority vote, while the Moot representatives hear petitions, debate and enact legislation, and advise the Jarls and High King on how to implement it. All of this is overseen by representatives of the largest Dragon Monk monasteries, who reserve spots for the ever-absent Greybeards.

**The Rift** was least affected by the Plague, but greatly affected by upheaval, as Jarl after Jarl was overthrown by the disaffected populace, until an Orcish chieftain was appointed Jarl, much to his confusion. He and his descendants have ruled ably since, adopting Nordic customs and serving as High King when called upon. Today, the Rift is one of Snow-Throat’s most populous and important holds, for agriculture and industry. Countless fishing villages dot the rivers and shores of lakes Honrich and Geir, and farming villages, plantations, and logging camps dot the forests. The city of Riften has never been cleaner, thanks to the efforts of the priests of the Temple of Mara.

**The Aalto** is one of Snow-Throat’s new holds, spanning the volcanic caldera south of Windhelm. The Aalto is a strange land, home to hermits, mystics, and hidden holy sites tucked among the steaming crags and hot springs. Most of the population lives along the banks of the White and Darkwater rivers, or at the base of the Velothi mountains. Wanderers and impermanent camps dot the interior, giants and their mammoths alongside Nordic jazbay collectors and hunters. In the south, the Silver Companions have built their mead hall and anchored their ships, protecting the sanctuary of the Eldergleam. Kynesgrove, the capital, is a holy site to Kyne, surrounded by a sacred grove from which the most senior high priestess holds court as the Jarl.


**Eastmarch** is home to Snow-Throat’s largest port and shipbuilding industry, from Lake Yorgrim to Slaughterfish Bay. A cool, forested hold, agriculture clusters at the banks of the White and Yorgrim rivers, and shipwrights ply their trade around the lumber mills and locks. The city of Windhelm is known as the “City of Skalds”, home to the great Temple of Dibella, patron of the arts, and home to craftsmen, skalds, and artisans of Nordic, Orcish, Giantish, and Dunmer persuasion. Eastmarch is headed by Jarl Torghun Gale-Eater, the latest in a long line of sea-captains and traders from his family. Each prospective Jarl must first work their way up the ranks of sailors and traders, proving their worth as a leader before being confirmed as Jarl by Eastmarch’s moots.

**Winterhold** is a large but sparsely populated hold, a land of mountains and glaciers. Fishing and whaling villages are tucked in coves, inlets, and fjords, and covens of watchful Fryse hags monitor the Sea of Ghosts for signs of sea-giant raiders. The capital is the port city of New Winterhold, built on the shore of the Sea of Ghosts a few miles distant from its twin, the College of Old Winterhold. The port is small by southern standards but busy, filled with traders from Resdayn, Wrothgaria, and the Commonwealth itself, as well as deep sea fishing vessels. Increasingly, Winterhold is a casting-off point for daring expeditions to Atmora, seeking to explore and possibly resettle the distant land. The hold is governed by a duumvirate of the hereditary Jarl and the Archmage of the College, the Jarl’s chief advisor. Winterhold is a popular destination site for Resdayni pilgrims visiting the great Shrine of Azura. The College and associated Jhunal temple are regarded as an oddity by southern mage-corporations, hidebound and traditional, yet trusted by the citizens of the Commonwealth for their wisdom, restraint, and focus on practical, cautious application of research.

The city-state of **Dawnstar** is claimed by the Kingdom of Greater Wrothgar & Karth, yet this is not recognized by most of the populace. The Jarl and aristocracy have close ties to the Kingdom, and indeed the traveling court has visited Dawnstar in the past, yet the city itself is governed by moots. Dawnstar’s mines ship ore both east and west and the port is open to all, yet tensions may yet force the city to make a choice once and for all.

**The Pale** is a cool, forested hold, stretching from the plains of Whiterun in the south through the appropriately-named Giant’s Gap. This hold claims the largest and most active population of Giants, living in villages and camps in the hills and mountains while their smaller neighbors herd reindeer and farm in the lowlands. The Pale’s government, as it is, is headquartered in Fort Dunstad, the most central location for all inhabitants. The hold’s Jarl, the highest ranked commissioned officer of the local militias, is often a Giant.

**Whiterun**, once the central hold of Skyrim, has shrunk. While still important, the hold and city are now much quieter, deprived of the east-west trade of days long gone. The ancient grain-estates still ship their produce up and downriver, the herders still take their charges onto the plains for their yearly grazing, and the windmills still turn, driving their millstones ever onward. The great Temple of Kyne and the Gildergreen dominate the Wind District, ever feuding with the Hunt of Jorrvaskr, while Dragonsreach sits above the city, home to the hold moot and the Jarl, elected every other year.

**Ilinalta Hold** was once part of Whiterun and Falkreath Holds, separating as the Plague shut down trade. The hold stretches from the Jeralls in the south to the Brittleshins in the north, a hold of forests, lakes, and rivers. The hold’s capital is the small city of Riverwood, a trading and woodcutting town situated on the White River. Ore, lumber, furs and fish pass through Riverwood, as well as traders on their way to and from Bruma via Helgen and the Pale Pass. As with other holds, the Jarl is elected, serving as both Jarl and mayor of Riverwood.

**County Bruma** is the Commonwealth’s newest member, formerly of Cyrodiil. Bruma, while resolutely Nordic, still retains the strongest traces of Cyrodiilic customs and traditions. The counts and countesses still retain more power, and hold strongly to their titles, while the moots are somewhat weaker than the rest of the Commonwealth. The city of Bruma is home to the great Temple of Ysmir, formerly the chapel of Saint Martin, formerly the chapel of Talos, formerly the Temple of Ysmir in days long gone.

Snow-Throat is a wild and harsh land, still a wilderness in many ways. Sea-giant raids from the north are a constant threat, as are Falmer incursions from below. Vampire lairs hide in the caves and ruins of the wilds, and mystics, hermits, and berserkers haunt the wilderness. Yet the Commonwealth prospers - the moots have proved a rowdy but effective system of government, advances in mundane, mechanical technology by clever smiths work as well as soul-powered contraptions, and the people of the north have become more united and prosperous than ever before.

*Additional notes: Dunmer are present, but generally don't have distinct towns. Bosmer are common in Ilinalta and Whiterun. Argonians, Khajiit, and Altmer are very rarely found in Snow-Throat. Reachmen, Colovians, and Bretons are the most common human minorities.*