*On the 28th of the Rain Hand the capital city of [[Cheydinhal]] celebrates the anniversary of the [[Restoration of the Guilds Act]]. The subsequent festivities last for a week, until the Reunification Day, which marks the swift and decisive victory over the rogue faction of the [[Elder Council]]. The third day of the festival week is the most subdued, for it is when the Potentate mourns the Last Emperor. At this day, not only the shrines of [[Albertius Mede]] are full of gifts and pentinents, pilgrimages are made to the shrines of all the worshipped Emperors - the Emperor Zero, Mother Alessia, Reman the Hill-Born, Father Tiber, Martyr Martin that is usually depicted with a dragon breaking out of the ruby embedded in his chest, horned Shezarr and eagle-headed Auriel. The knell of the dragons can be heard over the Niben river, as they in turn honor the passing of their Black Emperor.*

*Sixth of the Second Seed, the final day of the festival, is marked by the military parade, and the heroes that keep the peace and safety of the Potentate receive their deserved gratitude.*

*The main attraction are the rows upon rows of the [[New Model Legions]]. No longer the ragtag conscripted force of the old Empire, those are the professional soldiers, not lured by citizenship like those of [[Iliac League]] or land ownership like those of [[Kingdom of Wrothgaria and Karth]], but receiving honest pay as every child of Niben should. They are clad uniformely in the finest steel-reinforced [[bonemold]] the Potentate can provide, and the sun glitters both on the long pikes they carry in the field, and the sheaths of short sturdy Akaviri-style swords they use in shipboard combat. For every five pikes you can see the characteristic staff of the Nibenese Battlemage. They are no longer holding themselves aloof while the common soldiers die, but also serve as rank and file legionnaires.*

*This is also the only day when you can see the Nightblades in their blackened chitin and goggled masks in the open. The [[Minotaur Honor Guard]] also makes their appearance. The citizens of the city are used to the splendor of their guilded armors, huge two-bit axes and bronze-tipped horns, as they can see them guarding the palace of the Potentate every day. But the visitors cannot but help being amazed by the display of such controlled savage power.*

*The greatest attraction comes after the sundown. The [[Dragons of Niben]] - who are also counted to be salaried soldiers, just like the Legionnaires - flow up from the river and decorate the sky with the flowering explosions of their elemental shouts.*