An excerpt from Funerary Customs of Tamriel, 153rd Edition. Published 4e386.

…other forms of sky burials may be found across Snow-Throat. While the practices of [[Dragon Monks]] on the Throat of the World are most well-documented and formalized, they are by no means the standard.

Sky burials are commonplace in the hold of [[Giant’s Gap]]. Similar to the Throat of the World, much of the hold is unsuitable for conventional burials and entombment, dominated as it is by mountains and taiga. Cremation of bodies is often deemed excessively costly in terms of materials, especially among giantish clans.

In the southern regions, most of the grain-towns will maintain a site several miles from their fields, typically a circular stone structure in which bodies will be deposited to avoid contaminating the soil upon which the towns rely. In the northern regions, burial sites are maintained among the mountain crags, demarcated by rock cairns and painted runes.

Burials of this manner are highly ritualized. Upon death, the body is stripped of clothes and jewelry, then wrapped in hides lined with frost salts and enchanted to cool and slow decomposition. Family and friends of the deceased will then bring the body to one of the many sacred burial sites scattered across the hold. This journey serves a threefold purpose: to bring the body to be buried, to spread the word of the death to be recorded in the spoken records and annals of the Monks, and to collect the four figures required for each burial.

The first required figure is one who has Kyne’s favor, typically either a priestess or experienced hunter, to call for Kyne’s blessing and acceptance of the deceased. (Note: Kyne, among her roles for the Nords, is a death goddess.) Second is a devoted of Ysmir Alduin, World-Eater, son of Kyne, the God of Mortal Struggle, who will witness the deceased and remember their life. Third is a devoted of Orkey, the most commonly recognized death deity, who will perform the rites required for the deceased’s soul and body to be protected from the predations of the unknown. The final, and usually most important figure, especially in the northern regions, is a (relatively) secular figure, the Corpse-Thane. Appointed by the local moot, the Corpse-Thane is responsible for the proper arrangement and disposal of the body. In southern regions, the Corpse-Thane is the only one permitted to enter the burial structures to display the body for consumption by hawks and birds, and is typically a Nord or Orc. In northern regions, the Corpse-Thane is always a giant, for their task requires immense strength.

Upon arrival to the burial site, the family and friends of the deceased will undertake a small remembrance ceremony, telling stories of the life of the deceased, drinking to their memory, and reading their wills. The body will then be given to the care of the four figures. In southern regions, the body will be unwrapped from the preserving hides, blessed, and reverentially placed in the circle by the Corpse-Thane, at which point the ceremony will be deemed complete. In northern regions, however, the process is significantly more involved. The body will be removed and repositioned, arms, legs, and head tied with rawhide strips to bind it into a rough ball. The Corpse-Thane will then take the body to the burial site, setting it on the edge of a cliff facing a steep dropoff or another cliff face. The mourners, devoted of Kyne, Ysmir Alduin, and Orkey will then join in a chorus of Shouts to imbue the arms of the Corpse-Thane with strength and speed, whereupon the giantish Corpse-Thane will strike the balled-up body with a club, imparting as much force as they can to send the body flying, returning the deceased to Kyne.

Travelers in Giant’s Gap have reported that bodies sent flying by such burial practices may end up a mile or more from where they were launched, shattered against cliff faces and mountains. Such northern burials are allegedly more efficient at disposing of bodies than southern practices, as the bodies are rendered into smaller pieces for hawks to feed upon.