...it is the solemn wish of the *Yōkeda* that its *[[Ra]]* be henceforth issued and equipped with *Hel*, by the measure of inches having the blade be forged in steel, and measuring no less than 27 to 31 inches in length, curved sidewards to the left of the bearer. The *Hel*, from hilt to tip, is to stand 35 to 39 inches tall in length, of a balanced weight which is 2 to 3 pounds. Thus, let none question the measure of the blade, as it was dictated so by the *[[Sheklith]]-dō-Yōkuda*.

...secondly, it is dictated that the *Yōkuda-Ra* bearing Horse or Camel be issued the armour of [[Porcelain]], which, though delicate in appearance, is to fit properly upon the form, light as air but with the strength to run a blow. The cuirass, finely molded in the upper *Ajcea* style, must cover the torso with no less than 16 to 18 inches of Porcelain, extending from shoulder blade to waist. Additionally, it is a requirement that their *g'no* in the style of Breton jacks and Imperial gambesons, and be light though padded, at least of fifteen linens, or twenty-five in the East, and that these be of two fields, and it is important that the sleeve of the *g'no* be tight around the arm yet allow comfort for drawing of bows, and lifting of objects, thus it is allowed that it bear puffiness in the shoulders so long as it allows room for the bracing area of the wrist and hand. Sandals of feet size are to be only permitted to the foot regiments, for cavalry it is to be long leather riding boots, above pants of long and puffy fabric which may be used in the field as so. To finalize this section, the helmets of the Horse or Camel regiments are to be the so-called Lobster shaped ones, segmented, and of 3 to 5 pounds.

It is this scribe's order to end this ordonnance by notifying that all men-at-arms and pikemen tasked with foot duties in their service, are to be equipped with *g'tu* in chain as armour, on which may be placed iron or metal corsets. In the East, the *g'tu* chain-dress may be exchanged for a lighter *g'no* coat of leather, or a small breastplate of iron and porcelain. A light porcelain conical *daibethe* helmet, round in shape, for head. The Duhel-Ra of the *Yōkeda* shall be serviced fifteen bolts per quiver, a palmwood *Duhel* or Cyrodiil arbalest of darkwood, light helmets, iron gloves and a *g'no* in coat for protection against elemental magic.