_“Ragnar the Red” and Violence on the Plains of Whiterun: published in [[Sancre Tor]]’s local register, 14th Frostfall, 4e401._

The folk song “Ragnar the Red” has been a popular ditty across the North for centuries, persisting across both the [[Snow-Throat Commonwealth]] and the Kingdom of [[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]]. Despite the Nordic origins of the song, it has found popularity even in the most remote corners of the Breto-nordic Kingdom as well as in Giantish camps, Orcish vote-strongholds, and Dunmer merchant halls, forming something of a unifying cultural touchstone.

Unifying, that is, everywhere but the places the song sings of.

The collapse of the province of Skyrim at the outset of the Silver Plague rewrote the borders of [[Whiterun]] Hold. In the east, the city of Whiterun ultimately joined the nascent Commonwealth, its position on the White River creating easy links of travel and trade with [[Ilinalta]] Hold, the [[Aalto]], [[Eastmarch]], [[Winterhold]], and [[the RIft]]. In the west, however, [[Rorikstead]] became part of the Kingdom, an important fort-town on the [[Legion Road]] that binds the eastern baronies of Wrothgaria together. The plains in between, largely bereft of permanent settlements, became something of a no-man’s land: while each side claimed land, and indeed could exercise control over the closer regions, neither held complete sovereignty over the entire plain. Instead, the plains found themselves the domain of seasonal herders, to say nothing of the hermits, mystics, and [[Dragon Monks]] hiding among the rocks: giants and their mammoths from Whiterun and [[Giant’s Gap]], horse-tenders from Rorikstead and Whiterun, [[Brittleshin]]-folk driving cattle from the Hills, even goatherds from Druadach crossing through the claims of Wrothgarian qarls to graze their charges before returning to the crags of their nation.

This pleasant state of disorganization, alas, could not last. In recent years, the gro-Bleds of Rorikstead - proud of their ascendant city and eager to claim the title of Earl - have begun to attempt to exert control over the plains, first by preventing access by Druadach’s herders, initially by way of taxation and extortion, increasingly by threats and outright violence. Rorik gro-Bled, the current Thane-baron, has taken to sending his fyrd into the plain, harassing and assaulting herders - most of which claim citizenship in the moots of Snow-Throat - in attempts to drive them off, as well as burning and pillaging Commonwealth towns and settlements along the borders of the plains. Emissaries from Rorik have even presented his demands to Whiterun’s hold moot, proclaiming the ascendance of Rorikstead over Whiterun. While the Commonwealth has given no response yet, many suspect that the Great Moot may declare war, pitting the militias of Whiterun and Snow-Throat against Rorik’s fyrd in a brutal echo of “Ragnar the Red”:

_There once was a hero named Ragnar the Red, who came riding to Whiterun from ole Rorikstead!_ _And the braggart did swagger and brandish his blade, as he told of bold battles and gold he had made!_ _But then he went quiet, did Ragnar the Red, when he met the shieldmaiden Matilda who said..._ _Oh, you talk and you lie and you drink all our mead! Now I think it's high time that you lie down and bleed!_ _And so then came the clashing and slashing of steel, as the brave lass Matilda charged in full of zeal!_ _And the braggart named Ragnar was boastful no moooooree... when his ugly red head rolled around on the floor!_

Only time shall tell.