What is left of Morrowind, after land has been lost to the Potentate and Argonia. Ruled by an unofficial triumvirate of rulers (sometimes called, rather sacrilegiously, the “mortal Tribunal”); the Hortator elected from the Great Houses, the Gah-Khan (Great Khan) elected from the Ashkhans of the Ashlanders, and the Alma Rula elected from the Archcanons of the Temple. Though still mostly Dunmer, there are significant Argonian, Sload, Orc, and Nord populations as well.

Politically, there are basically three Resdayns. The Great Houses continue to be aristocracies jockeying for power much like they always have, with Redoran currently dominant and Telvanni and Sadras competing for second place. House Dres is hanging on by a thread and has had to make some strange alliances to survive (with the Archein tribe of Argonians, for example).

The Four Great Ashlander Tribes are also a serious political force now, however, with each tribe having its own customs and laws. They are mostly still nomadic, but some in the tribes are developing a merchant-aristocracy of their own. The Urshilaku are currently on top and becoming too involved in House-politics for tribal liking, and remain too tribal for House liking; the Zainab have become full-on merchant-lords like a tribal answer to the Great House Hlaalu; the Ahemmusa have become essentially Dark Elf vikings (you read that right); and the Erabenimsun are having an identity crisis between young faithless mercenaries and old spiritual pacifists.

The Temple is also a major political power, using its own answer to the Potentate’s guilds in the form of Temple-sanctioned guilds that also do labor strikes and the like. They also control a major sect of the Morag Tong.

As for religion, the Temple of the Reclamations is clearly still the main faith of Resdayn, and is doing what it can to unite the Dunmer, but there are cracks in the foundation. Plenty of Ashlanders still hate organized religion as soft Altmeri decadence, not to mention the debate of hierarchy between Wise Women and Archcanons. Even within the Temple some old sectarianism continues about what it means for the False Tribunal to be “merely” Saints, and strange groups like the Clockwork Apostles continue to exist.

For influences, we’ve pulled some from popular fanon and fan mods, but our goal is to make this setting stand on its own, so the hope is to keep such influences light. PGE1 and TESIII are obvious sources of influence, as well as the works that inspired them such as Dune or Star Wars, as well as Mesopotamian and South Asian cultures.
