With the capital in [[Cheydinhal]], the Potentate is a populist oligarchy that considers itself more democratic than it is. The Masters of the [[Guilds]] are now the part of the [[Elder Council]], and since they are (theoretically) elected by the Guild members. So that works as a representative system of sorts.

The whole political system hangs in a precarious balance between the old Nibenese oligarchic families (a lot of whom are the stakeholders of the a still surviving [[East Empire Company]]), the not-yet-fully-developed worker movement that as of now works on the level of the individual Guilds lobbying with the occasional labor strikes, and the current Potentate [[Hlaalu Helseth]] (yes, that Helseth) who cements his power by spreading his control over the appointed bureaucracy. There are also rumors of him recruiting the rogue members of both [[Morag Tong]] and the [[Dark Brotherhood]] as his personal secret police.

What concerns the religion, the Potentate flaunts the idea of the Nibenese tolerance and religious pluralism - and works to appease the sizable non-Imperial populations, the biggest of them Dunmer and Khajiit. Formally, the Potentate accepts the religious authority of the [[Archdiocese]], but in practice it has an even more pantheist bent. Two other dominant creeds flow from the [[Chapel of Arkay]] in [[Cheydinhal]] (which merged seamlessly with the ancestor worship) and [[Chapel of Mara]] in [[Bravil]] which took the ideal of apotheosis to almost the Velothic heights. In the practical implementation it means a multitude of small local cults and creeds of Avatars, Saints and Ancestors - the veritable land of the [[Thousand Cults]].

The interaction of the moving forces of the Potentate results in a very peculiar legal system where the laws have unexpected motivations. For example, the practice of necromancy and black soul gem trade are restricted under the labor laws, while the consumption of [[Moon-sugar]] and [[Skooma]] are permissable as religious practices.

Speaking of the influences, the Potentate calls back to the Nibenay of the PGE 1 and mixes the Far Eastern vibes (hierarchical bureaucracy, structure of the religions), Bysantine ones, and a touch of Bas-Lag.

*Sources:*
[[Chapter. Second Potentate]]