*The city of [[Silgrad Tower]] is on the eastern edge of the Smokefrost Peaks, where they meet the Velothi Mountains. Traveling the road from the Rift to the west, you will arrive in the Imperial District - a Cyro-Nordic fortification built during the Tiber Wars. It's now the main headquarters of the Molag'kena, who believe the remote location and harsh climate perfectly suited for training away from the "distracting decadence" of the more traditional cities such as Blacklight.*

*Uphill is the central plateau that is the Temple District. The ancient minaret from which the town gets its name is actually called "Tel Alma," and was built by warrior-monks in the Order of Saint Felms. They came to the mountains to follow in his footsteps and receive Divine Revelation through combat with the Nords and Orcs of the hills. Nowadays they just fight and train with each other, and sometimes the Molag'kena. Still, the shrine of Saint Felms receiving the voice of Saint Ayem is a popular spot for pilgrims to pray.*

*The real place of interest for us travelers is the east side, Stone Market. It's a terrace dug into the cliffs where Malahk-Orcs sell their unique brand of Orichalc armors, Nords sell meads from the west, and Ashlanders sell hides and waterwitches from the east. It's more cosmopolitan than one might expect of a conservative Redoran town - that's the influence of the Molag'kena. They technically govern the city in an understanding that goes back to the Order's founding, but they let the merchants elect their own hetman as well. Works fine, even if the xenophobes in Blacklight may have a problem with it.*