*Alcaire sits nestled among the hills near the mouth of a long river that eventually drains into the Iliac Bay, traversed by ships loaded with ebony from the Wrothgarian Mountains to the northeast. It is thus a vital trade outpost, but it is also famous among those who still revere Saint Tiber as one of the many sites claimed to be his birthplace. Pilgrims beware, however, for the region has a long history of lawlessness and barbarism.*

*Castle Alcaire was built during the Reman Empire, ruled by a Duke appointed by said Emperor who claimed to own all of the surrounding environment. Of course, the local Manmeri clans had little respect for the hereditary noble “tyrants” imposed by foreigners, and continued to farm and herd much as they always had. Occasionally, the Duke would send his own knightly order, at some point dubbed the “Order of the Flame,” to bring the barbarians into line. The clans would begrudgingly accept demands to pay some taxes in kind, but the rural folk had a chivalric tradition of their own, and would start to fight back.*

*A major turning point was the fall of the Flyte rulers. Auberon Flyte was the appointed “Lord of all Alcaire” during the reign of the Septim Dynasty. He was tutored in Wayrest, and began to expect that he could command the same authority as the Septim rulers. The witch-knights responded poorly to his attempt to establish law and order, and after a period of guerilla fighting the Flytes escaped to Reich Gradkeep (later renamed Anticlere). Lord Flyte took the Knights of the Flame with him, and from then on hereditary rule was all but finished in the Alcaire region. A ceremonial line of rulers continued to exist until the fall of the Mede Empire, but they were ultimately dependent upon the local folk-knights’ tolerance.*

*The Temple of Kynareth in Alcaire emphasizes her role as the Sky-Mother and Mistress of the Elements. Local lore holds that Kynareth was the First Witch, breathing life into the clay figures that became the first humans, but also took up the storm-blade of a knight to free her wife Y’ffre and the Breton people from the tyrannical sons of Sheor. People from the region often send their daughters to the local Alcaire Wyrd to be trained in the ancient arts of elemental magicka. They usually go on to become warrior-priestesses at the Temple, or respected members of the knightly forums in the city or the outlying hamlets. The eldest of their number become attuned to the very elements; one has eyes of burning black coal, veins pulsating with fire; another has pallid skin and blue lips, ice-crystals clinging to her hair and flesh.*

*Saint Tiber Septim - naturally - plays a role in their myths. The son of Kynareth, it is said he learned sword-mastery from the knights of the city and learned magic among the witches of the hills (a rare privilege for a man). Yet he later betrayed them all to join the Colovian hordes and conquer the world, albeit bringing about an age of peace and prosperity in so doing. He was raised up on his deathbed and joined the Heavens as a star, only to later be shot down by the jealous Thalmor. Every Tibedetha is therefore a day of mourning, all members of the city dressed in black, and the priestesses perform a vigil for the Fallen Son at his shrine. Tiber’s apparent moral ambiguity in their provincial mythology does not diminish his popularity. All Gods are understood by Alcairens to be good and evil in equal measure; Kynareth is the kindly mother who waters the crops, and the vengeful warrior who burns the forest with a bolt of lightning.*

*Unfortunately, all this unchecked influence of witchery and rural traditionalism has made the region unsafe, as shipments are ransacked for supposedly “stealing” Nature's gifts to sell them to foreigners. The local merchant knights, backed by those of other city-states in the League, have taken steps to remedy this by investing in a secular magic school (using the former Mages Guild hall) and enacting more aggressive patrols along the river and roads. As you may suspect, this exacerbates tension between the competing groups, and it may be that only a firm outside hand can keep the peace in the Land of Tiber.*