Of all the cities of the Potentate, [[Rimmen]], the Gateway to the West, was the latest to join the fold. And yet, *Rim'kha* as the native Khajiit call her, has a long history that stretches back to the Merethic Era, as one of the Sixteen Kingdoms of the Catfolk, as the capital of the Confedered Realm of Anequina and as the homeland of the Rim-Men, descendants of ancient Nedes, Cyrodiils and Akaviri who briefly established their own nation there in the Second Era, after which the city is named.

Seating atop a great hill, Rimmen oversees the High Savannah and its crops of maize, soy and above all moonsugar cane, all irrigated by the many tributaries of the Niben that run through the region. But the city's main source of wealth has always been its location. It seats at the crossing of the roads linking the port-city of [[Leyawiin]] to ore-rich Colovia, the caravan-center of Orcrest to the Niben and her many silk produce, and is a major stop on the "Sugar Road"^(1) from [[Torval]] to [[Sul]] in [[Resdayn]].

For the weary traveller to enter the city, they must first cross the great Baandari Bazaar that sprawls under the walls. First established by the Baandari Peddlers that gave it its name, this nigh-endless sea of tents is now the domain of the carvans of the [[Mother-Navigators]]. The discerning customer may find there wares and treasures from all over Tamriel for a low price... provided they do not question the origin of those goods too much, and mind the cutpurses of course. Next to the city gates, and constrasting the cheeful chaos of the Bazaar, our traveller will find the solemn, marbled, offices the [[East Empire Trading Company]] (second only in size to their seat in [[Cheydinhal]]), insuring a flow of trustworthy and reliable trade into the Potentate from Western Tamriel and back.

Once inside the city proper, the traveller will discover a charming mix of ancient and grandiose Khajiiti architecture and the utilitarian Imperial style of Cyrodiil, with, here or there, the occasionnal Akaviri folly. Most of the population is made of Khajiit (the third largest ethnicity in the Potentate), but a great number of Rim-men will be seen in the City at all times, coming and going from their villages all over the Rim where they maintain their culture separate from that of their neighbouring Khajiiti. But no Rim-Man would visit Rimmen without paying his respect at the Tonekana Shrine. This cyclopean construction is adorned with ten thousand statuettes, half an altmer's size, portraying Akaviri in all manner of everyday situations. Of those ten thousand, five stand out being three meters in height, one looking at each of the cardinal points and one on the roof. Who or what these five represented is lost to history, but most suspect them to be traditionnal Tsaesci gods, possbily linked to the Elements. There are even rumors of a sixth "evil" statue below the shrine. But since there is no way inside the building, that remains a mystery.

The oldest building in the city is whithout a doubt the great Two-Moon Temple at the highest point of the city, where the devout come to pay their respect to the Ja'kha-jay and marvel at the Lunar Orrerry, a model of Nirn and its moons capable of predicting their positions and phases with such accuracy that it takes one thousand years for it to be late by one day (or so the priests claim). The temple itself is covered in beautiful mosaics depicting the heavens. Some visiting scholars claim a few of the symbols to be Julianite in origin, but most serious historian dismiss that claim as absurdly anachronistic. On the other side of the Great Avenue, stands the Sand Palace, so called for the distinct yellowish color of its stonework, making it appears from a distance as an impossibly tall sandcastle and for the devotion of its inhabitants to Alkosh, the Khajiiti name for the Great Dragon, traditionnal patron-god of Anequina. Indeed, the Alessian-style chapel that flanks it is in fact the Great Temple of Alkosh, its exterior having been repaired in Cyrodiilic fashion by the first Count of Rimmen after the city joined the Potentate.^(2) As Imperial as the outside of the building is, the interior is unmistakably khajiiti, as the walls form a single great sky-colored fresca, depicting a seemingly infinite Alkosh in majesty, coiled around the visitors ruling over the World and the Heavens, with all the divine spirits holding court t his side. The gods's eyes, made of two great gemsetones, seem to stare directly into the souls of all who walk into the sanctuary.

In the southern district, the traveller will find a more recent (only fourteen centuries old) temple, smaller, but no less richly decorated than the others, dedicated to Azura, the Lady of Dawn and Dusk, who the Catflok revere as the mother of their entire race. It is know for its garden of roses, reputedly blessed by the goddess to help those who smell their perfume to find love soon. Many Dunmer migrants to the city frequent this temple with great assiduity and in fact, some of its oldest serving priests are now Dark Elves themselves.^(3)

If you are more curious than prudent, you may leave the city itself and travel to the Rimmen Necropolis, where are buried the legions of the First Era Dagonite warlord Darloc Brae. Indisputably, they are masterworks of funerary rites, is seeing them worth the curse that allegedly pursues all who visits them?

*1. Skooma Road.*  
*2. I wonder why the Temple needed repairs following the annexation. Or why the ruling family, by all accounts deeply traditionalists followers of the Riddle-Thar suddenly felt the need to show how culturally compatible they were with Cyrodiil. Good thing we live in an age of religious tolerance, heh?*  
*3. All this talk of grand palaces and temples, and not a single mention of the most prevalent shrines in the city? At every corner you'll find a niche with a small wooden statue of Riddle'Thar (or Rid-Thar-ri'Datta, no-one could give me a clear explanation) carved by the people of the neighbourhood, that they touch when leaving their home in the morning and going back to it in the evening to be blessed for the day.*