*Extract form the Journal of Luciannus Tenns Imperial envoy to the King of Black Marsh in 3E 292.*

The dreams are getting more and more oppresive. I dread going to sleep but what else can I do, confined that I am in this litter? My limbs shake incontrollably at the slightest movement and my body feels like a furnace. My only company are the daily visits of the healer and Quintus telling me of our progress and how many men we've lost to the Marsh today. Only one this time; he took his turn keeping watch in the night and was nowhere to be found when morning came. Yesterday we lost two; Sulia was devoured by some kind of watery beast and Cecily vomitted blood until Arkay had mercy on her. Well, I think that was yesterday. Keeping track of the days is almost impossible with this ever present mist. Quintus say that, with him included, I only have five escort left. Heh, Quintus, five. I shouldn't laugh. Why not? This Marsh will be the death of us all. I knew I should have never come here, but how could I turn down an order from the Empress-Regent herself? The Argonian guides and porters outnumber us two to one now, and they are all healthy, they could easily kill us all. Is that the plan? Has that snake, Simeus Tharn, bought them to disappear me in this swamp, just like he convinced the Empress-Regent to send me away?

Quintus came early today, his face running with sweat, he said we had met some strange locals with wings. I managed to crawl half out of the litter to get a good look. They look like Argonians but they have large leathery wings instead of arms. They rest on them like bats unless they are grasping something with their small fingers. I saw one gliding down and land among our group. They probably can't fly. The guides say this kind of Argonian is called Sarpa, and these say we are only one day's travel from Helstrom. Good. The healer is almost out of salves. Perhaps they will have more and better ones in the city. Hopefully there won't be as many mosquitoes, either. But I doubt it. How could any respectable city exist in this green watery hell? There are no roads, no fields, no civilization, only lizards and monsters, and I can't tell which are which.

The Sarpa told the truth, we made it to Helstrom today! I didn't recognize it as a city at first, as it seemed we had stumbled across a wall of vegetation. Then I realized I was looking at a stone building covered in the roots of large dark trees. As I looked around I could see more buildings, walls and great pyramids beyond, all covered in a tangled mass of black roots climbing down to the swamp. A veritable forest sits on this city, each tree filled with orange flowers. As I looked up, a breeze came, carrying the sounds of ringing bells, and we were showered by petals the color of molten gold. For the first time since I've stepped off the boat in Soulrest, I felt at ease. It was like the flowers were trying to tell me something, just below my understanding. Then the moment passed and we moved to the gates. Lamiae were guarding them! The guides insisted they were "of the Root" and we had nothing to worry about. The cityscape is dominated by great step pyramids, each topped by an old Hist tree surrounded by what I assume to be its progeny. Around the pyramids, in rows neater than anything I've ever seen of Argonian-make, are square buildings where most of the population seem to live and work. Even at ground level the Hist are omnipresent and the ground is covered in their roots. They are adorned with chimes and surrounded by bowls, gathering sap and attended to by the strangest Argonians I have ever seen. Some looked bloated, other had three or four arms, one I could swear had two heads! This menagerie makes the snake-women look positively normal. We were lead to a pyramid where we will be housed for the duration of our stay. A close look revealed to me the murals underneath the roots. I wish I hadn't. Scenes of carnage and ritual sacrifices, accompanied by the leering faces of demonic creatures. The fever overtook me as we entered and I passed out.

My room is spacious but lacking in windows and ventilation. The air feels as heavy as it did during the journey. And now, I have the company of these statues to inspire my nightmares. Above my bed is a snake devouring an entire city while being ridden by human creatures with their heads screwed on the wrong way. Lovely. Tree roots desecend into the room from the ceiling and pass through the floor. One reaches into a pool of water on a wall. I think I am supposed to drink from it too. Healers came, they say my fever is coming down and soon I might be able to consult with the Queen. I tell them I am to speak to the King. they say the last king died thrity years ago and now they have a queen. I need sleep.

I dreamt again. Can't recall what of. Wet warm darkness. Perhaps I was awake and that is just what nights are like here? There was a lizard in my room, an ignuana I think they are called. I tried to pet it. It told me that was rude. I went back to sleep. I walked outside of the room and saw my escorts playing dice with an argonian with three eyes. Quintus accompanied me as I toured the pyramid. Couldn't find any windows. As we passed the gate into the plaza outside I felt weak and he took me back to my chamber.

I feel like the roots have grown larger. I've talked with some officials, told them I was fit to see their queen now, but they told me I had to wait a few days before "the Scaled Throne hatched" whatever that means. Infuriating. How dare they treat an envoy of the Ruby Throne like this? I stormed out and explored the pyramid some more to calm myself. One sloped corridor just keeps descending deeper and deeper, below ground level. At one point it fills with water. I stood there for a moment, looking at it until I saw something halfway between a fish and an Argonian swim towards me. It looked me in the eye for a moment but did not surface. Then it looked to my left and made a bubbling sort of speech. This is when I noticed a soldier wearing an armor dark as night next to me. The soldier told me that was a Saxhleel of the sea, and that many lived in the waters around and below the City and in the waters and oceans of the Marsh. I do not remember how I came back to my room.

I visited the city outside the pyramid today. I saw an Argonian with a tail as long as the rest of her body drink Sap directly from a tree and convulse on the ground. I saw another the size of an ogre lugging around two baskets of fruit as big as my torso under each arm with ease. I saw more of the soldiers in black armor, the people move out of their way with fear and offer them fruits for nothing. I asked my interpreter (almost no-one here speaks Tamrielic) and she told me they are called Shadowscales and are the protectors of the Queen. "Like your Blades" she said. But then I saw another human being! Olive-skinned and with curly hair, he looked just like another son of the Niben. Delighted to meet a countryman far from home I tried to make conversation but he just stared blankly at me. And then he blinked. With vertical eyelids. As I recoiled in horror, his mouth moved as if to speak, but the only sound that came out of his lips was a snake's hissing. I ran.

I sleep again. There was a root that was a snake in a world on fire. A bridge made of branches took it away to the sky, except the sky was the bottom of the sea and I was lost until I found a woman made of wood. She pierced her breast and fire bled from it. I look into the fire and I saw the future. The future burned my mouth when I drank it. I run in the pyramid calling for Quintus and the other escorts but they are not there. I am alone. The statues are mocking me. Warriors of stone from an age of blood, they want blood, they want my blood.

The guards took me to the Throne room's antechamber and told me to wait there with the other supplicants. I told them I was an envoy from the Imperial City, that I spoke with the voice of the Emperor himself but they did not care. The antechamber is decorated with dreugh shells hanging from the ceiling. The reliefs on the walls show argonians conquering nations and enslaving them. I am let inside the throne room. It is made of black quartz. The Scaled Throne itself rests on an ebony dais. It is made of the bones of some great beast with large scaly wings erupting from the back, and popped up, like some kind of great dragon. On the throne sits the Queen, the oldest Argonian I have ever seen. Her eyes are white and blind, her pale skin seems too large for her bones, hanging and flapping in places, especially her breasts, or what passes for such in Argonians. She is naked except for a feather headress, in the middle of which rests a glowing withe-gold gem, and an assortment of bones hanging from her limbs. I approach her and she feels my face with her hand. I realize her left arm goes through the open mouth of a Dunmeri skull. Her breath reeks of rotten meat. I tell her that I am Ambassador from his Terrible and Awesome Majesty Emperor Uriel Septim the Sixth and his mother, Her Excellency the Empress-Regent Thonica, sent here to receive the homage Black Marsh owes to the Red Dragon Crown as welll as settle the matter of taxes to be collected from the Inner Marsh.

She laughed at me! She spoke as if she was the Emperor's equal, said that Helstrom and the Inner Marsh never bowed to the Septim Crown and that many other rulers, from the lords of the Deep Ocean to the Akaviri, courted her wealth and power. She then showed me an absurd map. It showed Black Marsh and all the familiar settlements, but the scale was all wrong: the map claimed that it was larger than entire rest of Tamriel, despite the cities circling the Province not being any farther from each other as they are on Imperial maps.

When I left the queen, I went up, instead of down. I climbed all the way to the top of the Royal pyramid, the largest of the city. There I found the largest Hist tree I have ever seen. As I looked into its trunk I suddenly saw a face in the bark, shaped by the crevices in the wood. It was my own and it was laughing. I turned away and looked at the night sky on the horizon. *Why are the night stars the wrong color!?*