Winterhold is the northernmost of the Commonwealth’s holds, a rugged, frigid land bordering the Sea of Ghosts. Cool in the summer and brutally cold in the winter, most of the population are fishers and whalers, their villages built in sheltered bays and inlets. Some eke out a living in the mountains, nomadic herders herding their small, sturdy goats from pasture to pasture. The last of the population lives in the sister cities of [[Old Winterhold]] and [[New Winterhold]], site of the College of Old Winterhold and one of Snow-Throat’s two port cities.

Winterhold’s south is dominated by the Tears of Saarthal, a sparsely inhabited mountain range that shelters the interior from the blizzards of the Sea of Ghosts. The southern faces of these mountains are inhabited by nomadic herders, bringing their shaggy goats from pasture to pasture, descending into the forests of Eastmarch and Giant’s Gap during the winters. The mountain range itself has few habitations - mainly militia forts atop passes, hermit shacks in sheltered crags, and in the north, a monastery beneath Azura’s Statue. 

North of the Tears stretch vast expanses of tundra and glacier. Once, the slopes of the Tears  blossomed green in summer, and herders from the coastal villages shepherded their charges to pasture. Today, the land is drab under skies of constant gray - even in summer the temperatures scarcely reach above cool into warm, and drizzling rain is almost ceaseless. By winter, blizzards roar in from the Sea of Ghosts, forcing the fishers and whalers of the coastal villages to shelter for months on end. Ancient ruins lie scattered in the ice and snow - the ancient Dwemer city of Alftand, the Magnarite hermitages of Saarthal, and even places older and more unknown.

East lies the remainder of Winterhold. Some measure of warmth from Resdayn appears to help moderate the temperatures of Snow-Throat’s eastern coast - from Hsaarik Head to the White River Estuary the land is cold but far more habitable than the north. Summers have moderate warmth, allowing trees to grow along the bluffs of the coast, and while few crops other than snowberries are cultivated here, more are grown than farther north. The fisher-folk that live along the coast make a merry trade in potash and soap made from seaweed, as well as whale-blubber and meats.

Hsaarik Head and the Broken Cape are the northernmost point of Winterhold and the Commonwealth. Here lies the twin cities of Winterhold - the College of Old Winterhold and the Port of New Winterhold.

The College of Old Winterhold occupies the cliffs of Hsaarik Head. Centered around the College itself, the city holds what remains of Winterhold after the Great Collapse - an assortment of houses, shops, and taverns, now expanded greatly to provide housing, food, and drink (especially drink) to the myriad students and staff of the College. Here, mages, clever men, wise women, spellswords, mystics and mundane researchers, engineers, and scholars mix - the College, conservative as it is compared to institutions elsewhere in Tamriel, remains the North’s primary center for magic and learning, attracting students from all across the Commonwealth, Wrothgaria, and even Resdayn.

The Port of New Winterhold sits on the coast below the College, a scant mile’s walk along well marked and maintained roads. In the early 4e200s, the first permanent buildings of the Port were made from beached ships, turned so their keels were to the sky in the old Nordic style. In the years since, the port has expanded and become more permanent. Most construction is long and low, multilayered walls of wood, insulation and stone build to keep warmth in and cold out. Much of the once-treacherous approach to the shore has been cleared to provide ships a way into and out of the Port’s sturdy encircling walls, and the harbor deepened. Most recently, construction on two squat towers has begun - crank towers for a great bronze chain, to be raised at the first sight of sea-giants.

For the faithful, Winterhold holds a decent few religious sites. The Port and College have a multitude of shrines dedicated to the [[Knowledge Gods]]  - Jhunal, Orkay, and Mora - whilst many Dunmer from Resdayn and Snow-Throat visit each year to make pilgrimages to the Statue of Azura. For the more secretive, the Magnarite hermitages of Saarthal beckon, though what worship is done there is not spoken of.

While some may scoff at the trade opportunities in Winterhold, bold traders have found the journey worthwhile. Enchanted items from the College, tomes of knowledge, whale oil, soaps, and fertilizers may be found here, to say nothing of the less common artifacts from Atmora that have begun to find their way back with the Commonwealth’s expeditions, and even bits of stalhrim and ebony, though at high prices.

For the brave few westbound traders, the Port of New Winterhold is the last major safe harbor along Tamriel’s north coast. Villages along the coast may provide some shelter, and the Jarldom of Dawnstar represents a midpoint between the Commonwealth and the Kingdom, but the journey is long and arduous.