The Aalto is a strange and sparsely populated land, centered around a great and volatile volcanic caldera. In the north, the Jarl holds court in Kynesgrove, Kyne’s most senior priestess in the land. In the south, the Silver Companions abide, their fleet anchored on the Darkwater and their mead hall built on the bank, awaiting calls to battle, while Mistwatch looms above the fog, a sentinel at Ysgramor’s feet.

 One of Snow-Throat’s new holds, the Aalto traces its origins back to the waning days of the province of Skyrim. Following the Treaty of High Hrothgar, the Civil War turned from a military stalemate to a game of politics, carried out by Jarls caring only for their own ambitions - or so the populace believed. Promises of wealth, exhortations of faith, and reminders of duty increasingly fell upon deaf ears, as distant towns in Eastmarch slowly turned away from the Stormcloak cause.

The death of Talos and ascension of Ysmir are commonly pointed to as the death knells of old Eastmarch, but in truth the hold had largely slipped away from Windhelm long before. Fort Amol, Darkwater Crossing, Mistwatch, Eldergleam Sanctuary, Narzulbur, Kynesgrove, and all the disparate towns, camps, and strongholds had already ceased to recognize Windhelm as their head. A cult of Kyne, centered around the sacred grove in Kynesgrove and the Eldergleam Sanctuary in the south, began to rise, priestesses and hunters walking the wilds and steaming crags, holding court with giants and orcs in the wastes of the caldera.

Organization - or perhaps reorganization - of the Aalto into a true hold came slowly in the wake of the Silver Plague. Defined most properly as areas that are not other holds, the Aalto claims the southern bank of the White River from the border of Whiterun Hold to the junction of River Yorgrim, the foothills of the Velothi mountains, and the northern slopes of Ysgramor’s Teeth. Most permanent settlements cluster along the river or in a great ring around the caldera, beads of towns and towers strung out on a necklace of roads, camps, and rivers. Farming, fishing, and woodcutting are the lifeblood of these most habitable regions, with mines carved deep into the rocks of the Velothi in the Orcish lands. The interior is wild, hermits, mystics, hunters and wanderers living among the crags and steam, long forgotten altars and standing stones lurking in the heavy air. To walk the Aalto is to live, and to live dangerously - for one can never be sure of the ground beneath their feet.