The Jarldom of [[Dawnstar]], sometimes referred to as the Free City of Dawnstar, is a city-state located on the shore of the Sea of Ghosts, far to Tamriel's north. Once part of the province of Skyrim and capitol of the hold of the Pale, today Dawnstar occupies a middle ground between the Kingdom of Greater Wrothgar & Karth and the Snow-Throat Commonwealth.

The beginnings of this city-state can be traced back to the waning days of the Empire, before the first Great War, when a young man named Skald Felgeif inherited the position of Jarl. A ferverent - some said fanatical - adherent to the hero-cult of Talos, Skald was a rash and militant leader, regularly instructing the guards of the hold and any mercenaries bold enough to carry out pogroms against the giants who lived in the hills and mountains to the south of Dawnstar, railing at injustices real and imagined, and wont to raise taxes and tributes at a whim. The inhabitants of the hold tolerated this behavior, perhaps assuming that he would get himself killed and free them from his rule. Unfortunately, Skald did no such thing, instead defying all expectations and driving out all his relatives, potential heirs, and rivals, and spitting in the face of mortality.

At the outset of the Stormcloak Rebellion, Skald, then referred to as Skald the Elder, jumped at the opportunity to prove his and his hold's devotion to Skyrim, Talos, and Ulfric Stormcloak, not necessarily in that order. Too old to take to the battlefield himself, Skald instead took to recruiting - or perhaps press-ganging - as many of the hold's capable hands and sending them to serve in the rebel forces, as well as raising taxes and tributes yet again. Initially accepted as yet another eccentricity, as the war dragged on the consequences readily became clear. Bereft of guards to patrol the roads and man the forts scattered across the hold, banditry exploded, bands of wanderers, opportunists, and would-be lords taking occupying and threatening vital trade routes. The long-suffering giants began to encroach upon the Pale once more, and with few guards left, Skald could do nothing. In the south of the hold, the vital grain-producing farms suffered under the weight of ever-increasing demands for supplies, and food prices rose and rose in the hold's capitol.

By 4e202 and the Treaty of High Hrothgar, the hold was in dire straits, yet the Jarl refused to change his ways, instead shifting his attention to jockey for Jarl Elisif of Solitude's hand in marriage in an attempt to crown himself High King. The southern towns, led by the settlement of Heljarchen, quietly began to secede, lacking protection for their homes or the caravans they sent north. Traders, put off by the city's taxes and fees, increasingly began to bypass the port, instead making for the city of Winterhold. 

In 4e203, after the Tibedetha Incident and the Empire's declaration of war on the Dominion, a tipping point occurred for the hold. Skald, once so defiant of death, was found to have died in his sleep, only discovered due to the absence of his long-suffering manservant from the city. Interred in Dawnstar's Hall of the Dead with as few honors possible, the people of the city took stock of their situation. With no heirs present or even known, the hold was left without a Jarl, and considering the situation they were in, few wanted to become the next jarl. Convening in the Jarl's now-empty longhouse, the city's prominent citizens, businessmen-and-women, traders, and chieftains of the local Danstrar clans elected to form a governing moot, taking decisions in council to attempt to govern the hold and pull them out of the dire straits they were in until a new Jarl was selected. Cut off from the vital grain of the south, the moot instead turned west, sending envoys to Solitude, Morthal, and the towns of the Hjaal River to barter for grain. Deals were established with Morthal and the towns of the Hjaal, and grain barges slowly made their way along the coast to the port.

So things continued throughout 4e203 and 4e204. Ore from Dawnstar's mines found markets in Solitude, Morthal, and High Rock, and the Imperial drawdown in Skyrim and the shipments of troops along the north coast temporarily buoyed the coffers of the city. No Jarl was selected, as members of the moot repeatedly blocked each other from attaining the position.

It would not be until the next year that the deadlock was broken. A Legion veteran named Brina Merilis reached out to Elisif of Solitude, the de facto Imperial authority in the province, and received her backing, both in the form of a letter of sponsorship and the subtly implied threat of force. Ascending the the position of Jarl, Merilis was nonetheless forced to make severe concessions to the city's moot limiting her powers as Jarl - chief among them an inabilty to tax or raise levies. Merilis inherited a mess of a hold from Skald, shrunken by mismanagement to an area hugging the north coast, low on funds, and nearly cut off from the rest of the province by the slow collapse of trade. But if things seemed poor now, worse was yet to come.

Increasingly harsh winters and dangerous seas, beginning in the winter of 4e204-205, began to cripple what trade was left, as travel became unreliable and crops failed. The port of Dawnstar became nearly empty of traders, and locals desperately began to cobble together ships to fish and hunt whales and horkers. Word slowly reached Dawnstar in 4e206 of plague in the Niben and the battlefields of the Second Great War, and by 4e207, plague in High Rock completely cut off western trade. Fearful of plague and desperate for survival, the Jarldom hunkered down, settling down for the long and confusing plague years to follow.

After 4e207, the records of the city become scant. With little to no paper, no printing press, and limited access to parchment, written records are scarce. Oral history recounts that the city managed to maintain intermittent trade with Morthal, bartering ore, meat and blubber from horkers and whales, and fish for grain. The expedition to the Pillar of Thras in 4e219 appears to have anchored in the port, bringing word from both Winterhold and Solitude. Outside of this, little is known about what happened in the beleaguered city-state until 4e242.

In this year, traders from the Port of New Winterhold in the burgeoning Snow-Throat Commonwealth visited the city, making their way through seas littered with icebergs to drop anchor in the port. They found that the city had little use for the coins and gems they brought, instead preferring to barter for goods, trading for trinkets and food. Departing back to New Winterhold, the traders brought word to the elected Jarl of a city headed by a Jarl and Thanes, with a chapel devoted to Stendarr instead of the Nordic twins of Stuhn-and-Tsun. After some debate at the Great Moot - then held in the city of Windhelm - an invitation was extended to the city-state to join the Commonwealth, only to be summarily refused. The Jarldom preferred its ties to the west, and the aristocracy feared a loss of power, as the Commonwealth had abolished the nobility within its borders.

Today, the Jarldom of Dawnstar has strong ties to both the east and west. The city is not officially part of the Kingdom of Greater Wrothgar & Karth - the Jarl holds no writ of taxation from the queens - yet the travelling court has been entertained in the city. Representatives from the city's moot, and occasionally the Jarl, will travel to the Great Moot from time to time to debate and press issues - finding unlikely allies in the Counts and Countesses of Bruma. Propositions to join the Commonwealth have been vetoed by the hold of Giants' Gap, formerly the Pale, dominated by giants with long memories of past injustices, and complicated by the refusal of Dawnstar to accept the hold as an independent entity. Nonetheless, covens of Fryse hags watch the coast, and agreements of mutual defense have allied the Jarldom's fyrds with the Commonwealth's militias against sea-giants and Falmer alike.

For traders braving the Sea of Ghosts, Dawnstar is a minor port. Barter and coinage mix in the port, as coins from the east and trade from the west pass through. The port offers safe haven from the icebergs and sea-giants, and less piratical taxes than the fishing villages of the Commonwealth, yet also offers far poorer trading opportunities. Goods from the Kingdom, Snow-Throat, and even Resdayn may be found here, but may be found more safely elsewhere.