*A handwritten page, with no signature, but in a very familiar hand, glued in at the end of the Guide.*

There is no official name of this city, and you will not find it on any map. Nobody counted the populace, or mapped out the city districts. The locals call it 'Port Topal', 'New Thormar', 'Baan Dar's Gift', 'Father Niben's Plug' (and few variations on this theme, some of them very obscene, and mentioning Helseth by name) and, ultimately, 'Home'.

~~'Tis not a place you want to find yourself in when the cargo on your ships belongs to you. Every port has it's taxes and tariffs, and the merchants often complain of being robbed blind, but this is the only place where...~~

Drat it, I'm tired of copying the high-brow style of the Guide. This is a pirate haven, plain and simple. Their ships would take your cargo, and valuables, and most often your ship as well - but they don't take slaves. And mostly don't execute prisoners. The officers, executives and merchants are ransomed, the simple sailors are offered to join. But, surprisingly, they take no for an answer - except for the crews that run on the Bosmer variation of the creed. Those make you join in place of the pirate you killed.

The city itself is sprawling, loud, dirty, chaotic - and peaceful. The fighting in the city is prohibited, and the violence is limited to the regulated and almost ritual Claw-Dance duels. With more than a half of the populace being Khajiit (by my rough estimation), the use of the claws is the norm, and the other races are allowed to compensate with palm-blades or punch-daggers.

The political system is a mess - but in an interesting way. I wish I understood more of it, to describe it fully, but the locals are pretty close-mouthed with the outsiders. From what I gathered, the ship crews vote for their captains. The 'ground' crews vote for their captains in the same way, and the city districts are divided between them in some complicated geometry. How the most important decisions are made, I have no idea. There are no uniforms, no crew tokens, no gang signs - only old Thalmor uniforms command instant respect. But everyone seems to know everyone else and their allegiance.

Their 'economy' is no less strange, as they seem not to have one. At least not the one familiar to us. The pirates don't use money or barter between themselves, but rather have some sort of credit allocated to a particular crew, with bonuses based on their performance. That means loot brought for the ship crews, but I ain't got the foggiest how they measure that for the ground crews. As a non-violent prisoner, I was allowed to wander around and eat and drink on the credit of the crew that captured me.

What else goes into such articles? Religion and faith. Obviously, Baan Dar is a big thing here. It seems that initially, and for the older pirates, it was more of a gag, a way to claim their way of life was a religious devotion. But the longer the city stands, the more serious the cult is treated. Many of the pirates keep small shrines - to their ancestors, to their gods, to the spirits they placate. And the Bandit God is most often present. Usually he is sculpted as a Khajiit, more rarely as a Bosmer. One crew, with a lot of Iliac Bay deserters, had statues of him as a Breton thief.