*Fort Dunstad is the ostensible capital of the hold known as Giant’s Gap. Unlike the capitals of most of Snow-Throat’s holds, Fort Dunstad is not a city, or even a town. True to the name, it is an old fort, repaired and refurbished, serving as both the site of the hold’s moot and central gathering and trading spot.*

*Giant’s Gap’s hold moot meets four times a year - once in spring, once in summer, once in fall, and once in winter, corresponding to the seasonal gatherings of herders and traders. Four times a year, Fort Dunstad becomes the bustling epicenter of the hold, as people from all over converge to trade, resupply, trade stories and tales, air grievances, and generally have a good time - or at least, a time.*

*Heljarchen, Lorelius, and the other southern communities send grain and vegetables north, to be sold to the villages and clans who grow none. The giants bring their cheeses and meats from the mountains, the lowlanders their snowberry vintages, the herders of reindeer and elk their hides and antler-crafts, the miners their ores and metalworks. Each fair sees the return of many mammoth merchants, bringing with them goods from far afield - County Bruma, the Rift, perhaps even Colovia or the Druadach Kingdom. Bottles are uncorked, fires lit, and the festivities carry on deep into the night, and even through.*

*The most sober - and occasionally least sober - gathering at each fair is the moot. Representatives of the various towns, clans, and camps meet to sit and talk, hearing complaints, writing and reciting agreements, and passing what passes for laws in the wild north. Sometimes the moot finds their jobs easy - yet another agreement to veto the Jarldom of Dawnstar’s entry to the Commonwealth - and other times hard - disputes over grazing rights, passage through fields, assertions to combat strange Orcish cults in the mountains. Those Dragon Monks who make their way north find themselves busy sitting in judgment at these moots.*

*Each winter the moot must select or reconfirm a Jarl of the hold, who will remain in Fort Dunstad year-round. Unlike most of Snow-Throat’s holds, the Jarl is not elected by the populace - not directly, at least. Rather, the Jarl is the highest-ranked officer of the hold’s militias, appointed and confirmed by the moot. In the months when the hold moot is not in session, the Jarl will reign in their stead, commanding troops, conferring with stewards and Monks on matters of economy and state, and more. Most important decisions will be held off until the seasonal gathering, except in matters of extreme urgency - but in those cases, the Jarl must then explain their actions and decisions to the moot when it is next in session. As such, level-headed officers are typically promoted to Jarl - meaning that most often, a Giant will be the head of Giant’s Gap.*

*Fort Dunstad’s remoteness makes it a destination hard to reach for most travelers, but the seasonal fairs are a must for a curious wanderer. Rustic - and often raucous - they are nonetheless significant opportunities for trade.*