Once a great city of the north, [[Solitude]] is now a shadow of itself. The harbor rarely sees a trading ship, and even then its most often a smaller shallow-keeled boat from [[Blacklight]] or [[docs/Wiki/Locations/Windhelm]], or even [[Jehanna]]. The royal palace doesn't get many visitors either - for all the pretense of the royal family to greatness and the legacy of the great Kings, Queens and Emperors of the mankind, they are largely irrelevant even in their own kingdom. Only the Divines' Temple is always busy, and in the last decades had spread out to occupy the whole Castle Dour. It now houses the biggest Seminary of the kingdom, where the wandering priests of the northern version of the creed are taught.

There is one day each year, however, when the city becomes the capital it once was. On 16th of Sun's Dawn the Unified Kingdom of Haafingar, Rivenspire, Karthald, Wrothgar, Falkreath and Hjaalmarch, or '[[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]]' in common parlance, celebrates the anniversary of its founding. Serious historians may argue about the importance of other events - the delegation of power to the thane-barons, the formal appointment of a single Heir, the signing of the [[Act of the Union]] - but for the common folk, it all began with the marriage of  [[Queen Elisif]] of [[Solitude]] and [[Queen Gwynienne]] of [[Northpoint]]. That the date coincides with the traditional holiday of the Heart's Day doesn't hurt either.

^(Editorial Note:)

^(The marriage itself should be put into the proper historical perspective to understand its importance. While permitted religiously under Mara's laws, and grudgingly accepted among the commoners, the marriages of such sort were looked down upon by the lineage-obsessed nobility of the fading Empire. And for all their claims to the opposite, the Nord nobility had taken up the Imperial ways. If not for the chaos of the subsequent events, the Queens' Heirs would have hard time defending their claim at Jarls' Moot.)

The commoners from the most remote villages and mountain hamlets come in what can only be describes as a pilgrimage, and the festival celebration includes one of the biggest fairs of the year. The itinerant priests of the Eight Divines flock back to the great cathedral. By the evening, with its stained windows illuminated from inside and singing voices raised in chorus, it makes one feel as if transported back in time to the height of the Septim Empire.

The parade of the thane-barons in the archaic armors of their Legionnaire ancestors tries to reinforce that impression, although everyone is aware it is mere costumery. The traditions of the Legions have died out more than century ago. The small leaders who were nothing but tax-gatherers appointed from the Legion veterans by the start of the Fourth Era - thanes, barons, chieftains - were granted the ultimate power over their small domains in the times of the [[Silver Plague]]. Their descendants now are the actual rulers of the kingdom, each one of them holding his tiny court in his restored hilltop fort.

The policies they support serve to keep the Kingdom hamstrung, with its glory returning back only during the yearly festival - the disconnected self-sufficient thane-baronies have little interest in trade. The lack of communication and organization between their tiny domains, the complicated structure of obligations and vassalage makes the Western Kingdom even more fragmented and disorganized than rule-by-mob of the Eastern 'Commonwealth'. The predominantly agrarian population is largely uneducated, and lives from harvest to harvest, and thanes are glad to keep it so.
 
*YgM: For all I dislike that 'rulership by the virtue of owning the only sword in the village' stuff, you can't deny that their isolationism works for Wrothgarians. One of my drinking buddies from the [[University of Cheydinhal]] had a whole set of numbers about the Plague, its strains, mortality, all that. GW&K got through it with the least loss of population, it seems.*