*What you want? Pay me to see the Moons? Sister, looking up is free. What!? How do you know that name? You with the [[Synod]]? I didn't do anything I swear, I- Okay, you got me. Yes, that's me. Yes, I did go to the Moons and I can take you there. But not a word to the Synod, okay? I'm not supposed to be... practicing anymore. Look, here's a list. Be back next full Moons with the ingredients and three hundred drakes and you'll get your trip okay? And not a word. To anyone! Ah, started to think you wouldn't come. You're in luck, cloudless night, that'll make things easier. You got the stuff? Heheh, I knew you were reliable, sister, last time I made this brew, some idiot brought me skooma instead of Moonsugar! Not even the Dunmeri stuff, that diluted Skyrim crap. Sorry Commonwealth. No offense, but at my age you get set in your ways. Here, take the nighstshade and put the leaves in that boiling water there. Then stirr. Clockwise one full turn, then one full turn counterclockwise, keep going like that until it's all blue. Meanwhile, I'll crush the Moonsugar and the Nirnroot together. A potion? Ya think? You outta work for the Watch with a brain like that. Course, it's a potion! People be swearing by Alteration or Destruction or Mysticism, or what have you. But Alchemy's the real deal. Magic's all around us, just waiting to be used by someone with more than two braincells to rub together. Poison? Heh, what isn't. Sure my gums aren't pretty to look at, but sister, that's a low price for the things I've seen, things I've done. Never could bring nothing back fo' sure, but never had to run away from a Daedroth neither, Heheheh. The nightshade's just there to... Lower your defenses, open you up a little for the rest. Moonsugar comes from beams of Moonlight, you know that? What knows the way down, knows the way up. Nirnroot gives you an anchor point, and reminds Them of Their family. Gimme your hand. There! Human blood. Oh stop whinging, you're a big gal. Look it's the same for me. Altmer blood. Twin bloods for twin Moons. Duality, light and Dark, Anu-Sithis, they still teach that, right? There it's ready. Just wait for it to cool down, go sit in the Moonlight, and gulp it down in one go. I prepared a spot for you in the backyard.*

The people of the Moons brook neither god, nor king, nor leader of any kind, for that is Solar thinking and therefore finds no purchase in the Land-in-Between. When decisions are to be made, all those of proper age speak with an equal voice. Their communities are small, as the largest caterpillars can only house up to nine families within its bowels, and disputes are settled quickly, by resettlement if necessary.

The people of the Moons are of Nibenean stock, but generations of living in tunnels, breathing thin air and running in a land where the grip of the Nirnbones is weak has given them pale skin, long limbs and swollen torsos. They herd their caterpillar-houses to the bottom of the deepest craters where the air is densest (though still thinner than even on the slopes of Mt. Hrothgar) and therefore breathable without the living suit of caterpillar-larvae required for the Plains-under-the-Stars.

There, they mine the silver ore that they fashion most of their every day tools from and trade, alongside mothsilk, with passing Jumper Khajiit or Lygian Slipsmugglers for Jodefeathers or crabwood. When time allows, the bravest dig past the Dibellite layer to mine the Ebony underneath, but this runs the risk of waking a Worm before the season, and it is not unfrequent for entire mining teams to disappear. But the godsblood so acquired is necessary to forge weapons strong enough to repel ghost-snatching raids from Revenant, Meridian Solar Legions and their Void-borne Auxiliaries and, above all, the harassment of the Great Worm and its four Unstar Champions.

But there is one enemy that cannot be fought. The Dark Wall. During the time of Contraction, the Wall advances, slowly but surely covering all the Land-in-Between forcing the Moonfolk to flee within an ever shrinking area. It is a Time of gloom and conflict as caterpillar-clans fight over ever-smaller territories. The People wear clothes dyed in black and white and those who are born during that time are said to be melancholic or anger prone. When nearly all the Land-in-Between are covered by the Darkness, the Moonfolk unfurl their caterpillars' wings and take flight. During those flights mothsilk can be spun and marriages are celebrated as Moths mate together. During that act, some of the families of each caterpillar-clan leave it to join the other. This is known as Flightseason and when Flightseason happens together on both Moons, Great celebrations are held as some clans depart one Moon for the other, according to the whims of dancing Moths.

Then comes the Time of Expansion, when the Dark Wall recedes. The Moths land and their great wings are furled back. The caterpillar-clans spread over the Land-in-Between once more. It is a time of joy and partnership as the Moonfolk enjoy an ever-expanding bounty. The people wearclothes dyed in all the colors of the rainbow and the children born during that time are said to be light of spirit and quick to forgive. Once the Dark Wall has vanished entirely, it is Crawlseason, a somber time as dead caterpillars are buried in sacred spots, to wait for their rebirth, and the grown larvae have their insides excavated in preparation for the next Contraction.

Of particular note are the ziggurats. Grand black pyramids built by forgotten architects. Their only inhabitants are hermits, left there during Expansion with supplies to last until Contraction. They spend most of their time pondering the strange winged Worms painted on the walls of the ziggurats and watching distant Nirn, for old legends and superstions claim that the ancestors of the Moonfolk once came from there, riding one such winged Worm and that another may yet come again. Their real purpose, however, is to tend to the Nirnsalt-gathering nets, a precious substance used to both flavor food and predict the coming of the next Worm season.

Food is scarce on the Moons, consisting of a diet of caterpillar-grown algae and occasionnel Worm-meat, but water even more so. The Moonfolk gather what water they can from condensation within mining galleries, and recycle all that they use as much as possible. The caterpillar drinks first, followed by the algae, and then pregnant women and little children. The remaining water is divided in equal rations that are distributed among the clan. Thirst is a terrible thing in the Land-In-Between, and to take more than one's ration is the worst of crimes. For this reason births are carefully controlled using potent prophylactic magics.

When a child comes of age, they must travel to the very edge of the Dark Wall, as close as they dare (some, too daring for their own good, never Come back), and gaze on its surface until they can discern moving shapes on it. These are then interpreted by the oldest of the clan as to predict the youth's future.

The Little Moon is not as spacious as the Big Moon, but its Dibellite layer heals much faster, making those clans who dig it that much richer in silver. However, on rare occasions, it will be traversed by deep tremors. When this happens, those clans who find themselves on it dig large holes for their caterpillars to fit in and seal themselves in, waiting for the crisis to end. Everytime this happens, some arrogant youth will insist on staying outside to prove their strength. They are almost never seen again, but those who are come back wounded, speaking of a Land dyed blood-red by terrible storms within which monsters hide.

The dead are a common sight in the Land-in-Between. Most are foreign spirits, of all kind of shapes and colors who wander the Plains-under-the-Stars by foot in large groups. They do not fear the Dark Wall but they never speak to the Moonfolk, preferring to huddle together as they silently gaze at the sky. The Moonfolk's own dead are much more amiable, as they simply continue their tasks and duties as they did before, with no need for rest or food. It is very common for them and their relative to forget that they are dead in the first place. But eventually all dead find themselves at the same place. Unlike the Dark Wall, the Light Wall is stationary and made of single white rock. It encircles its respective Moon in the place where Nirn is so low on the horizon that it has almost vanished. It is mottled with an infinite number of black and white gates, each of which will only open for only one mortal. How one knows which gate is theirs is a mystery. They simply do. Even the living may recognize their gate should they come across it, prompting all but the bravest to flee in terror. Past the gates, pitch-black tunnels stretch for an unknowable length until they reach a distant light. No living has ever been able to cross a Gate, even opened, but many have scaled the Light Wall. None have succeeded in describing what they saw from there. They speak of an hemisphere that is not one, a great expanse that curves on itself while at the same time stretching infinitely in a straight line, of impossible shapes that hurt to look at and of colors for which there are no names. None has ever scaled the Light Wall twice.