The Great Free City of Orsinium sits in the Druadach and Dragontail Mountains, a land of steep peaks and deep valleys. Founded in the early Fourth Era, the original free city expanded in the wake of the Silver Plague, nearby strongholds joining in solidarity and territory from Craglorn claimed. Orsinium rose, and from all across Tamriel, His people flocked to their newly reborn homeland.

Today, Orsinium is as much a fortress as it is a nation. Protected by natural borders, the Orcs have reinforced their homeland, ever cognizant of the threats beyond. The Yokedate stirs to the west, the existence of Orsinium an affront; the Bjoulsae hordes roam Craglorn, threatening the settlements and Yokedate alike; and over all, the memories of past sacks and shame. The strength of arms alone would not be enough.

The borders are watched by airships, reverse-engineered from Dwemer technology. The dragon Nahfahlaar has been contracted as a mercenary, returning to his old ways. Cleverly disguised spell circles and focusing points have been carved into the land, ostensibly for airship navigation. Nets for collecting water double as magicka collectors, focusing aetherial energy for whaleship navigation, divination, and power. And beneath it all, the Orcs have built deep bunkers, carved into the living stone, delving deeper and deeper with each year, a city living without daylight. The surface of Orsinium is simply a skin, stretched over the depths of the Dragontails.

Only the most paranoid and magically inclined Orcs truly inhabit the network of tunnels and bunkers. For them, the past disgraces are proof that Orsinium must change in order to survive. It is not enough for threats to be distant, for whaleships to provide safe trade, for airship and dragon to patrol the skies. *No,* they say, *we must turn away from the surface. Turn away from the God. We will find our strength elsewhere.*

*After all, even the mighty hammer Volendrung was not forged by Orcish hands…*