*A Giantish account of the reintroduction of the arts of the Thu’um to the common peoples of Snow-Throat.*

Written by Kradlar (The Smaller Of Grok’s Sons), with notes and addendums by Gor Lonely-Hearth.

{*Scholar’s Note: Since Giantish is not a written language, some of its structure, such as word tense and prepositions, are not communicated in text, as they are normally denoted by spoken intonation. Here I have noted to the best of my ability what tense was intended for a given word or phrase, and added prepositions where needed.*} 

Giants live{*d*} {*with*} Men, {*in*} times long {*past*}. Men {*do*} not remember, but our histories {*are*} long, and the tales {*of*} Khar Grakh Yarghag {*no direct translation for this phrase exists in mannish tongues*} {*are*} not forgot{*ten*} {*by*} our kin. {*For*} many years, we {*were*} enemies of Men, tak{*ing*} {*from*} their herds {*to*} repay their trespasses {*against*} us, and send{*ing*} any who c{*a*}me {*near*} our camps back {*to*} the Sky {*which*} birth{*ed*} them (grohoho){*this phrase denotes laughter*}. 

But {*when*} Affliction {*(Plague)*} c{*a*}me {*to*} Keizaal {*this word is not Giantish, but appears to be a loan word from the Dragon Language. It is what the Giants use to refer to Snow-Throat*}, the Men gr{*e*}w sick and desperate, and c{*a*}me {*to*} us offer{*ing*} gifts {*of*} peace; and see{*ing*} their weakness, we th{*ought*} {*to*} put away our differences, and reunite {*with*} our distant tribe-kin.
But we s{*aw*} too that they {*had*} lost their Voices, and their Power-Shouts {*were*} remember{*ed*} only {*in*} song and legend. 

Now we {*have been*} a quiet people {*since*} Khar Yarghag {*likely a variation of the previous untranslatable phrase*}, and mostly only use our Voices {*to*} gather our herds and warn trespassers (this alone sometimes kill{*s*} them. grohoho). But Men beg{*an*} {*to*} learn our speech, and welcome{*d*} us {*into*} their tribe-councils. Many {*of*} us decide{*d*} {*to*} repay this kindness {*by*} teach{*ing*} them {*to*} use their Voices again. We show{*ed*} them how {*to*} light their fires {*with*} a whisper, how to move {*like(?)*} the wind {*with*} a word, and how {*to*} call out {*to*} one another {*over*} many miles. {*Now*} the Men use their Voices like times long {*past*}, and we mostly get along. 

But most Men {*do*} not remember how {*to*} Power-Shout, which {*is*} how Voices {*are*} use{*d*} {*to*} sing great stories {*of*} old, and do battle {*with*} words. Only {*the*} Dov-Followers Shout like {*the*} first Men {*did*}, but they {*do*} not teach others. Some of them {*are*} like we used {*to*} be, hid{*ing*} {*in*} mountains and speak{*ing*} little. This {*is*} strange {*to*} us, because {*when*} we d{*id*} this, Men {*were*} angry, and forg{*o*}t our friendship (though we {*have*} forgive{*n*} them). Others roam Keizaal, fight{*ing*} {*to*} protect their tribes and herds ({*from(?)*} what? Certainly not us). 

But none of {*the*} Dov’s disciples share their secrets. Perhaps they think themselves better {*than*} other Men. Or maybe {*the*} Dov forbid them {*from*} sharing. As {*for*} us, we teach them Words. Our Power-Shouts remain a secret kept {*to*} ourselves. For our histories {*are*} long and hidden {*in*} Shouting, and {*for*} the peace that we share {*with*} Men, it is perhaps better that they remain this way. 