**Part Two**

**Where our hero goes astray, brushes with death and madness, but is miraculously saved**

> I need you to send a demilitarized micro-wasp missile message to Hlaalu Hir. Priority: now. If we still have wax, then use the old seal. The one with the tusk.

I put away the fanciful story of House Sul and listened. After eight days, an unfamiliar sound now intruded on my cubicle. The days were as much of a fiction as Charting Zero Deaths out here, but my memories and the tally of the sleep-cycles stubbornly agreed. It took me a moment to understand what attracted my attention - it wasn't something new, it was something missing. The almost-unheard wailing cry of the soul gems had gone silent, and now there was a faint whisper from outside. As I tried getting up, I realized that my body felt weightless, as if I were floating underwater. Windows were a liability to the contraption, so I would have to go out and check where I was. I floated downwards and started unlocking the latches that held the hatch closed. While I did that, I checked the concentric arrays of soul gems that first alerted me. They were dim, and some of them had even cracked. They looked just like I felt - burned out by the takeoff. It was a complicated setup in which I cast and held featherfall on the whole contraption while first the powerful explosion of the alchemical compound, then the enchantment powered by the soul gems propelled us upwards. The effort of the spell had left me drained of Magicka - and I still didn't feel it starting to come back.

But that was the least of my worries. The gems running out so soon meant that all my calculations were faulty. They were supposed to work for much longer and bring me in sight of Masser. The view out of the hatch was not what I had expected. I had long dreamed of seeing the Nirn from the outside, wondering how it would look from such a distance - as a giant ball, similar to the moons, or perhaps a huge, flat expanse terminating in jagged waterfalls. I saw neither.  Instead, I only saw the pinpricks of distant stars. Taking my planned precaution, I used the clever alchemical device that I purchased off the Snow-Throat merchant to light my water pipe - not even a simple Sparks spell for me yet - and dove outside.

The view of what I had still been thinking of as 'upwards' was even more strange than I expected. No sight of Masser or, indeed, any of the moons or planets, but instead there was a line of floating broken rock and stone, with strange and weirdly shaped debris seen here and there. A glint of dwarven metal, a giant feathered wing looking as if it were wholly constructed from glass. Some of the debris looked organic - a desiccated moth, for all the world looking like one I would brush out of the cobwebs in an archive room, but miles long, if my eyes didn't deceive me. A whale skeleton of even more massive proportions. Here and there on the rocks I noticed clumps of vegetation, and occasionally there were regular openings, reminding me of windows and doors. I quickly dismissed the notion. In one place there was even an old Ra-gadan sailboat, looking as if it had been cast ashore by the sea.

When I noticed the sailboat, my perspective shifted suddenly. The rocks ahead were rapids, and an unseen river was carrying me and my temporary home towards them with increasing velocity. Panicking, I did the only thing I could think of - I drained one of the Magicka potions and cast Featherfall on myself. Immediately, I slowed down, while my dwarven-plated bell shot forward, swimming - no, falling towards the rocks.

The slow descent gave me enough time to reconsider the ten years of choices that led to this point. Making secret copies of the newly discovered Remanian archives. Painstakingly translating them from that curious archaic language where sexual innuendos, magical instructions and theological revelations used exactly the same mode of language. Sleepless nights spent worrying whether the universe had played an enormous practical joke on both us - the Archivists - and the Elder Council. Whether there ever was an Aetherius Exploration program. Or whether the Dibellite Interpretation was more correct than the Magnusian one, and the whole corpus of those texts was a bedroom guidebook, an instruction on poses and devices Reman used to satisfy his presumably numerous concubines.

Then the time spent gathering the supplies, many of them restricted, and some of them prohibited. A decommissioned diving bell from the underwater construction of the new southern port. Enough Dwemer metal to fully cover it. A store of powerful Magicka potions. All innocent enough. Soul gems of at least great power, not all of them acquired legally. And finally, the secret ingredient of this experiment, the smallest surviving part of which rode in my water-pipe. Skooma, which I've reconstructed from the manuals and Khajiti texts to serve as a sanity anchor, in a paradoxical way.

How I struggled to gather all the legally available stores of moon sugar and distill them according to my own secret recipe. How humiliatingly I had to reach an agreement with the local gangs of the Cheydinhal slums I lived and worked in - the anonymity and silence I desired so much turning against me. How I tried to persuade them I didn't want to trade in their territory, and how I had to surrender half of what I produced 'for protection', slowing down the progress of my preparation for years.

Now that store of precious, sanity-preserving skooma had crashed through the layers of ancient debris with a weirdly quiet noise, and all that was left for me was the contents of my water-pipe. I had to ration it, pulling in the sweet smoke once in ten breaths, once in twenty, trying to get used to the feel of the leaden band across my chest. Senseless whispering voices slithered at the corners of my sight, dark shadows rung in my ears, the whole world gained a curious dream-like quality, and I was suddenly viscerally afraid to wake up. As if I, Zirik Not far ahead was a series of the rectangular openings I have spied from above. From so near, they indeed looked like doors and windows protected by huge stone slabs, ornately carved. I ran to the nearest door-shaped one and tried to force it open. My skooma had almost run out, and the buzzing feeling and the fear returned. The noises I made echoed strangely, and I did not notice anything around me until I heard a sharp commanding cry right behind me.
, was only a dream-shadow of a giant slow and reptilian mind, an ephemeral presence quickly forgotten. A fresh drag on the pipe pushed the feeling back somewhat, but always not enough.

Three heights from the deck of the sailing boat - as I somehow managed to aim my fall on it absent-mindedly - the spell fizzled out, and I ended up in an undignified sprawl. I took a store of my situation - no food, no water, no weapons, no tools, bar the the water-pipe, one vial full of Magica potion, one empty, and tough sailor clothes of raw moth-silk. The sailboat looked like an antique, and were I not so pressed for time, I would love to explore it further to determine its age properly. But as it were, I was only interested in retrieving my supplies. Climbing down from it, I stumbled across the uneven rock in the direction of the crash. The landscape looked bigger from that perspective, the distances seemed to increase as if I walked across one of the bigger islands. I felt as if I were walking for hours, although I had no way to measure the time, and the shadows never shifted. The taste of skooma grew fainter, and I was afraid what would happen when it ran out.

Not far ahead was a series of the rectangular openings I have spied from above. From so near, they indeed looked like doors and windows protected by huge stone slabs, ornately carved. I ran to the nearest door-shaped one and tried to force it open. My skooma had almost run out, and the buzzing feeling and the fear returned. The noises I made echoed strangely, and I did not notice anything around me until I heard a sharp commanding cry right behind me.

Slowly, I turned around. A dozen pairs of eyes looked at me, but the people they belonged to were neither men nor mer. The eyes themselves looked insectoid, convex surfaces of fractured mirrors, the bodies had two arms and two legs each, but the joints, the proportions, the movements looked insect-like as well. Chitin-covered fingers gripped me, and immobilized, despite all my struggles. I felt something forcing my jaws open, and tried to bite it, to spit it out, until I felt the familiar sanity-saving taste of skooma. One of the - Attackers? Saviors? - seemed to take off the insect-helmet, and a different face looked back at me. Slightly too elongated for men, with sharpish ears and golden skin, cat-slit eyes and too much hair, but fully within the variation of that mongrel breed that now called themselves Nibenese. I wouldn't have given him a second glance if I'd seen him on the streets of Cheydinhal. Then the blackness hit me.

^For the continuation of this exciting adventure and other similar stories, subscribe to our weekly 'Journal of Magica Fiction'. The yearly subscription comes with a 20 per cent discount.

*the last page of the penny dreadful has a hand-written dedication*

*To [[Yzmul gra-Maluk]], my most faithful audience. You always listened to my stories, even if you didn't believe a word. All this would not have happened without your help.*

*[[Zirik Sul]]*