The Feast of the Dead remains one of the holidays central to Windhelm in the Commonwealth. The Dibellans in Windhelm have, during their renovation of Windhelm, also taken this feast day into their domain. The Silver Moths, as the Dibellans of Windhelm are known, have said that there is great beauty in remembering who came before. 

The artist that joined me on our scholarly pursuit was able to capture the beginning of the feast at the renovated Wall, before we were informed that further documentation would be restricted. There are, among the Nords of Windhelm, rising concerns that the Woodland Man may be interested in learning more of the lore behind the day, Others in Windhelm were not as cautious, but we did not want to run contrary to what some of our hosts wished. What we could document is that there is a recitation of the names of the 500 that followed Ysgramor, during which many in Windhelm will feast and leave offerings at the wall. The 500 are merely the first round to be named. Depending on the state of inebriation, others may then follow with their own recitation of ancestors. The feast lasts for as long as there are names recited. During our visit, it was 3 days/ We were not given a reason for why the Silver Moth acolyte that begins the recitation will wear a bear hide and go by the name of Tsun for the first day. 

While many of the names carved into the wall are barely visible, there is an artisan that was attempting to carefully engrave the names once more when we were there. The statuary at the end, depicting the snake totems that have come into fashion in the Commonwealth, was of newer construction. 