This particular festival is tied strongly with the Iliac Bay politics. The preceding week is devoted to the election of the two leaders who would guide the League through the next six years. By tradition, the candidates, and delegated voters from every city-state of the league gather in the city of Balfiera to present themselves and cast vote in person. Counting their ships with crews, and invited honorary guests, the population of Balfiera is said to double on those days.

After the outcome of the election is announced, the celebratory part begins. The main attraction here is a regatta, a sea-race though all the length of the Iliac Bay from the isle of Balfiera to the isle of Betony. But that is not the contest of pure speed - packed cargo waits on Betony, its amount exceeding the size of a typical ship hold two or three times. Thus, it measures the logistical capabilities of the captains, and the endurance and speed of all the crew.

From the Iliac Bay, each city-state puts forward its own ship. They all are much similar in construction - mid-sized, with two or three masts, mostly square-rigged, except for the gaff sail on the aft. Such ships have shown themselves to be capable both in the relatively calm waters of the Abecean Sea and in the open ocean. They are small enough to be fast and maneuverable, but big enough to carry the cargo, and the fighting complement of the marines and shipboard ballistae. There is no surprise that the shipbuilding of the rest of the nations is influenced by the Iliac designs to a greater or lesser degree.

*YgM: They are cheap to build, that's their main advantage. Freehold and Sapiarchy designs are superior in every way, but you can't turn them out with the same speed as those clinker brigs.*

The only ship standing apart is under the banner of Daggerfall. An example of Iliac martial ship-building, rather than mercantile one, *Red Dragon* is a seven-masted floating fortress. It isn't the biggest ship in the harbor, though.

Similar enough to the classical Iliac brig is *Hundig's Rage* of Stros M'kai. She is lateen-rigged, though, in a more archaic way reminiscent of the ships of the Warrior Wave. And she seems to carry more ballistae than usual, including the compact alchemical ones hidden behind the clever windows of the lower deck. There also appears to be no distinction between the sailors and the marines in the crew, as everyone is lightly armored and carries a sword at all times.

The most impressive of the guest competitors is, obviously, the one from the Potentate. *Saint Barenziah* of Port Katariah is competing for the second time. She has been constructed as a flagship for the upcoming expedition to the Akavir, and now waits for the rest of the fleet to be built. Her dark hull is made of the finest Nibenese softwood, the multitude of independent sealed holds ensure that it stays afloat even when severely damaged. The fully battened sails from the closely-woven moth silk are dyed bright purple. A great treasure ship, she is slower than average. But she is big enough to fit all the cargo in one go, and the crew can populate a decent-sized town. Using the ship-mounted cranes, she can be loaded and unloaded surprisingly rapidly. Only the unfortunate low tide had prevented her from winning the race the last time.

*YgM: This bloated cow of a boat managed to run aground smack in the middle of the Iliac Bay. Independent holds worked well, though. So after the high tide she needed only three months to limp back to Port Katariah. Let us all hope they don't run aground in the middle of the ocean if and when they finally sail to Akavir. It's a fine bunch of lads and lasses serving on her, would be a pity to loose them.*

From the port of Alinor hails the beautiful *Root Square of Minus One*. The wrought glass ships of Sapiarchy, with their impossible geometry and wing-like sun-sails are rarely seen on the trade routes. The performance under sail is invariably awe-inspiring, but it is mitigated by the fact that the crew seems to be enthusiastic amateurs who don't see the open seas often.

A less refined take on the same design is marked as being from the newly-constructed port town of Jode's Pocket. The port doesn't see much trade, as few merchants wish to go up the Strid river, but just as a ship itself, it is a testament to the fledgling Bosmer state ambitions. The ship, pretentionsly named *Valentis the Great*, has been commissioned from the Sapiarchy shipyards. Doubly restricted by the unwillingness of the Altmer to disclose all their secrets, and the necessity to dock in the freshwater port, it came out too small for its sails, and a bit awkward on sharp turns.

Two longships from the port of Solitude and the port of Windhelm stand side by side, as similar as sisters. Named *Blessing of Akatosh* and *Kyne's Breast*, both are in Atmoran style, and thus much different from the rest. Clinker-built from the long planks of the ancient northern oaks, their length is limited by the height of the tree itself. Shallow-keeled, broad and flexible, they show their best in the icy Sea of Ghosts, where they can go up the rivers on oars, and survive the impact on floating ice that sinks bigger and sturdier ships of the southern style. The sail plan is simplistic, though, and doesn't allow to sail as fast and as close to the wind. The Wrothgarian ship is all prettied up, with the sails and crew uniforms dyed Queen's red. The Snow-Throat crew, in comparison, looks as if they have wintered on the floating ice halfway to Atmora with only horkers for company.

*YgM: If that's the ship I know as 'Kyne's Tits', then yes. Yes, they did.*

The port of Greenheart is represented by *Thousand and First Eye*. Formerly an EEC merchant ship, it has been claimed under the ancient rights of salvage. The legality of its aquisition is as dubious as a Free City status of the Greenheart itself, but too many interests are tied in to make an issue of it. Built in the Potentate many years ago, she started her life as a double-decked coastal galley. Such design, dating back to Mede times, is far removed from the splendor of the *Saint Barenziah*. However, recently it has been upgraded with the taller masts and the complicated system of studding sails that unfurl to the sides like a pair of great wings - and which its agile Bosmer-Khajiit crew operates flawlessly.

Similar sails adorn the ships from Pelletine and Anequina. Few can match the natural grace of the people of Azurah on the masts, and that allows them to operate the rigs of such complexity that would confound the average sailor. The hull of the Anequina's ship is another Mede-period classic - a triple-decked galley, captured together with its home port Leyawiin in the time of troubles. Such warships, although refubrished with modern sailing plans, are still used to patrol the Niben delta by both Potentate and Anequina. The ship of Pelletine is newly-built though, garish with the carved guilded ornaments and bright paint.

Freehold is represented by a different vessel at each Regatta, following some complicated internal arrangement between the merchant families. Once they even put out a full Goblin crew, if you can imagine that. This year's contestant comes from the port of Woodhearth, and is a most unique ship. *Verdant Verse* is a Bosmeri song-carrack, her hull a single living tree, persuaded to take a shape of the ship. The rigging is a mixture of dense broad foliage, canvas, and Altmer sun-sails.

*Gifted Heart* flies the banner of port Evermore. Depending on the complicated ebb and flow of the relationships between the Iliac Bay and their eastern neighbours, it is not always allowed at the Regatta. But the trade up the Bjoulsae is not blockaded by Wayrest now, and the ancient galley of old Breton design is welcomed as an honorable guest.

From Blacklight comes *Saint Jiub*. Her battened silk sails make her appear similar to the Potentate ships from the distance. The hull design, however, marks her as a product of House Sadras. The Resdayn ships only rarely make it as far as the Abecean Sea, mostly being used for local transportation across the Inner Sea, and so their designs are still not fully adapted to the open ocean.

The most outlandish-looking is the contestant from Soulrest. From the first impression, an uncharitable observer would call it a giant raft fully assembled of reeds and hollow trunks. But a closer look reveals much cleverness - *Eternal Change* is a twin-hulled vessel, stable enough for the shore trade, but also able to navigate the swampy shallow rivers and lakes of the southern Black Marsh. The materials are chosen with the traditional Argonian ingenuity to either resist rot naturally, or treated with fire to become such.