The Southern Sea, sometimes called the Serpentwild by its inhabitants, is proximal to the sugar-rich Tenmar Forest, contains the bellicose nations of Pyandonea, and has long been a major shipping route for all the major powers of Tamriel. Therefore it has always attracted smuggler bands, thieves guilds, and wharf rats of every sort. The region has become the “[[Baandari Coast]],” also “Baan Dar’s Coast,” the “Baandari Wilds”, and “Bandithome”(1), names often applied due to the preponderance of crime and lack of a single centralized authority to deal with them. Rather, various islands and city-states cling to independence despite the growing lawlessness around them.

The problem truly became endemic in the second century of the Current Era, however, when the Aldmeri Dominion began funding and training native Khajiit and Bosmeri pirate crews in order to reorganize them into semi-autonomous privateer fleets that could harass the Mede Empire’s southern shipping and supply lines without directly implicating the Dominion government. It is now known that certain Thalmor officers even offered special “marks of bounty” on significant Imperial ships. While an admittedly clever if devious strategy for the Thalmor, it had devastating long-lasting implications for the region. In privatizing their war on Imperial shipping, the Dominion had created floating schools of crime.

The piratical economy escalated greatly out of Dominion control in the collapse of governmental authority that ensued following the [[Second Great War]]. The [[Silver Plague]] performed best in humid environments, and so the tropical coastlines suffered first. Common citizens and public officials alike died feverish and vomiting in cramped metropolises. Many nobles outright fled to the countryside, leaving their people to fend for themselves. Plantation owners and rural nobility would become the real powers of the region in the years to come, establishing themselves as the principal powers of the new Baandari Coast through alliance with the corsairs.

In short time, the corsairs took advantage of the mounting crisis to seize control of ports along not only the Southern Sea, but also the western Niben, and all across the Abecean. They formed alliances with invading Maormeri clans from Pyandonea, established ties with unscrupulous magistrates, and bullied naive locals with fear and intimidation. Certainly, raiding treasure ships to prevent the establishment of proper commerce and banking has worked well in their favor, forcing those under their sway to accept systems of barter in which moon sugar and wine had (and in some regions still have) become the closest equivalents to currency. Even in those places where coinage has resumed, the corsairs’ ill-gotten gains seem to be the main source by which said currency enters the market. 

The winds shifted in the 240s as fewer cases of the Silver Plague began to be reported, and proper governments began to organize and reassert themselves against these corsairs and their craven allies. The [[Battle of Port Dibellum]], in which the nascent Freehold navy routed a larger corsair fleet, caused quite the panic in the criminal underworld. Some went underground, while others realized the necessity of banding together all the more if they were to weather the storm. These commodores began speaking of common piracy as if it was a matter of patriotism and religious liberty.

Next was the Blockade of Greenheart in 261. The [[Freehold Republic]] attempted once more to push out the pirate-sympathetic regime, but this time was foiled when the local Bosmer decided they preferred their criminal overlords to merchant-aristocracy from Auridon. A rather unique agreement was eventually reached (see below), and as a result the city has been something of a halfway point between the lawless wilds of [[Bloodtoil]] and Baandari, and the civilized mercantilism of the Freehold Republic.

With their western territories shrinking, the pirates grew ever more desperate to reassert their dominance. At this time a notorious outlaw, Commodore [[Ra’Fajjan]] the “Extended Claw of Baan Dar” entered the scene. In the late 290s and early 300s, she became the most fierce advocate and executioner of “razzias”, raids upon various coastlines to seize territory, take galley slaves, and instill fear in regional authorities.(2) Even though she was quite advanced in age by that point, she is also most likely responsible for organizing the “Great Razzia” of 337 which devastated so much of our fair Nibenay, though our armed forces would ensure it was her last raid. With a little aid from our [[Anequina]]n friends, all the pirate outposts were repelled and much of the damage was repaired. Our fruitful employment of the [[Dragons of Niben]] has safely prevented further incursions. The full extent of Baandari influence, therefore, has been safely contained to Baan Dar’s Coast.

Today, the Baandari Coast remains a cauldron of crime and dysfunction. The common god of the region is, naturally, Baan Dar and the so-called “Code of Baan Dar” is the closest thing to a united law and religious creed among the corsairs of the Serpentwild. What we know of the Code, and the inner workings of the pirates in general, comes to us from the writings of Vinnus Randas,(3) who spent a number of years on the Baandari Coast being traded from galley to galley. According to his harrowing tale:

“...the Baan Dar Code dictates that a pirate may take anything which is not properly guarded against. Among the Peddlars, this means valuables which are left in the open are considered “proper salvage,” as is any good found in an unlocked container. But the crooked corsair crews take this even further, suggesting that _anything_ which a person did not put up a decent fight to protect is worthy salvage in the eyes of their Bandit God. Under the code, each ship is ruled by a mob, and the captain and the mob must live in a constant game of competition and fear with one another for power. One wrong move and a captain may lose their head. For this reason their “Code” also generally forbids an armory on the ship, and each sailor is compelled on pain of punishment to keep their own saber, crossbow, and claws polished and battle-ready. Most of all the Code calls for “fair” trade and dealings among the crew, requiring each ship to set its own rules regarding the distribution of “salvage” and the election of quartermasters. When conflict does arise, as it does frequently, it is dealt with most nastily and brutishly, but swiftly. Such is Baan Dar’s “justice” among the pirates.”(4)

That is not to say Baan Dar is the only divinity worshiped in the Coast. This region of Tamriel has always been diverse, and the interests of trade have increased that diversity. Khajiit and Bosmer make up the majority of the populace and the corsairs, and practice their traditional pantheons, but also among them are enigmatic Maormeri who revere Mother Sea, Altmer fulfilling Phynaster’s call to travel (many of whom are veterans of the Great Wars), godless Sload outlaws, wandering Redguard sword-cultists, Colovian adventurers who follow Kynareth’s winds, and foolish profit-seekers from every possible culture and heritage who have brought their religion with them.

The overall political situation of the Baandari Coast is complex. Returning again to the words of Vinnus Randas, “the Coast is in reality an elaborate conspiracy-web cast perhaps by Saint Mephala. The cities depend on trade and piracy, especially insofar as their independence is concerned. The rural countryside relies on internal commerce and trade with the [[Baandari Peddlers]] and plantation clans, who I believe are likely in alliance with the corsairs. “Follow the sugar,” they say down here. The clan elders don’t want to share their sugar with the Manes. The cities don’t want to pay taxes to foreign militias. Better to rely on these pirates for their so-called “protection” and “prosperity”. It is like the security rackets of the lowly street thug, much to the immiseration of the commonfolk and the foreign merchants alike.”

**Places of Note:**

The “Gold Cat City” of **[[Senchal]]** on the easternmost reaches of this thuggish domain is the most prominent in politics, economics, and corruption. Its many wine houses, gambling houses, and skooma dens render it a popular resort town for sailors in the South looking to forget their money on a night of cheap thrills. The city’s sole ruler is the “Harbor-Duke” [[Dro’Zhan]], an heir to the legacy of Ra’Fajjan, who nursed all rebellion for forty years. Though he has yet to confess it publicly, it is alleged by [[Argonia]] that Dro’Zhan is also the “Corsair-King” who has been organizing the [[Baandari fleets]] in razzias on Argonian territory. The natives of Senchal suffer in destitution and addiction as their avaricious lord and his decadent coterie of backers continue his zealous campaigns against all law and order.

In recent years, attempts have been made by regional governments to bring the city in line. The failed coups of Pelletine, Argonia, and, yes, our own nightblades have drawn ire and criticism from local Khajiiti clans. The power of the skooma lobby in the city, it seems, is far too much to easily surmount, with many natives bafflingly enamored with their overlords.(5) Senchal has many great sugar refineries, and is the beginning of the “Ri’saad Line,” a trade route that extends all the way to [[Whiterun]] in the North. The masters of the Senchal refineries, the local clan mothers, are paid allies to the Harbor-Duke, and command loyalty throughout the southern peninsula.

If Senchal is the Baandari Coast’s economic capital, **[[Mistral]]**, located on the northern shores of Khenarthia, is its spiritual soul. The “Speaker for the Moons and Sky” lives in a temple at the top of the Roost - a great mountain which has at times lent its name to the entire island. The rest of the city spirals around the great mountain, with other shrines, estates, and government buildings located near the top, until one reaches the market docks at the bottom. More ancient temples to the different aspects of the Moons can be found across the island, attracting spiritual seekers and history-minded academics alike. Unfortunately, the local Speaker’s distance from the affairs of the common folk has allowed the corrupt port officials(6) to welcome the Baandari corsairs and happily let them restock and maintain their ships in exchange for suspiciously low prices on a variety of goods, as seems to be policy in many port cities and villages across Bandithome.

The island isn’t all religious sites, however. Khenarthia has many plantations which produce sugar and exotic fruits, and a few kwama egg colonies on the western side. The southern side of the isle, [[Eagle’s Bane]], is settled by a clan of Maormer who have built a coraltown and taken to ray-farming. The Maormer and Mistral have long had a strange back-and-forth relationship throughout history, but in recent years seem to have reached an accord. Certainly the Maormeri weather-magic is quite useful in maintaining the island’s independence, rumors of the clan’s ties to the Baandari fleets notwithstanding. 

The Long Coast peninsula in the center of the region was settled by Altmer and later Khajiit colonists, who cut trees, planted fields, and built cities. Thus it has been able to boast of having some of the most multicultural populations on the Southern Sea. **[[Haven]]** can be found on the east end of this peninsula, which came under the protection of a military order called the [[Red Spears]] during the Silver Plague. This band makes claims of liberty and meritocracy, welcoming members of all walks of life so long as they can fight, and being ruled by a Jihatt K’hari (meaning, roughly, “kingly mercenary”), who is in theory elected from their ranks. In fact, a cadre of wealthy senior warriors, mostly Khajiit, Altmer and a few Bosmer, serve as the true inner circle which governs the Red Spears’ decision making and leadership.

**[[Southpoint]]** on the west end of the Long Coast peninsula has styled itself a “Free Republic”, ruled in theory by a council of landed nobles and concerned intellectuals. The true masters of the city are, critics argue, the corsairs who openly dock at the port and drink to their hearts’ content. The city-state thrives on the coins brought in from the treasure ships the corsairs love to raid, making it the prime example of the Baandari system of subversion. Half the city remains the domain of these foreign ruffians, as the other native half attempts to bring order and civility through the soul industry and greater scholasticism.(7) Tensions are high, and riots and drunken violence are all-too common in the sad, squalor-filled metropolis that was once the Cyrodiilic jewel of the Grahtwood.

The Free City of the Elden Wood, **[[Greenheart]]**, is a nominal member of the Freehold Republic. It is also a sacred city to the Wilder Court of the Greenshade Bosmer. As noted earlier, the city’s entry into the Republic involved a lengthy naval blockade which was ultimately ended when the local treethanes and Green-speakers were granted spiritual and political autonomy over the city and its surrounding environs in exchange for certain economic concessions to the Republic. The anarchic nature of Greenshade civilization has thus allowed smugglers and sea-bandits to make the surrounding shores their home, a situation the treethanes are all too happy to exploit if it helps maintain their independence. 

**Current Events:**

When Councilor Fabius Andronicus(8) stated a decade ago (at the time of publication) that he believed a united pirate republic could be forming in the Southern Sea, which could threaten all peace loving citizens of the Niben, he received audible laughs from his audience. While it is certainly true that the corsairs thus far are rather decentralized, it cannot be denied that the Baandari are making great inroads in many regions and cities of Tamriel. One need look no further than our own city of [[Water’s Edge]], where authorities have recently arrested a magistrate for conspiring with smugglers connected to the Baandari. Other cities are not as thorough as Nibenean justice: there is rumored corruption at the docks of [[Dusk]], [[Soulrest]], and even the mysterious [[New Thras]]. Argonia is especially vulnerable to the rise of the Baandari corsairs: it is said that for every secret harbor the Argonians stamp out, another three take its place.

There has been mixed success in efforts to root out the piratical menace on the all-important Southern Sea. The Freehold Republic has stepped up raids and patrols, but their inefficient decentralized style of government prevents them from truly eradicating their enemies. Pa’alatiine has also attempted to reassert control, especially where its southern port cities are concerned, but the deep-seated religious divisions among the Khajiiti clans proves an obstacle to such plans. Many Bosmer clans from the Bloodtoil Pack are outright complicit, and mock the idea of shipping laws if they acknowledge them at all.

The [[New Model Navy]], however, has made much more successful strides against the corsairs, such as the recent raid which brought to justice the notorious Maormeri Commodore Vashin the Outlaw. Our forces are expected to make further successful captures in the near future, with vital aid from our friends in the [[East Empire Company]] of course. Let us hope and pray for their success, and that Councilor Andronicus’ prediction not become a reality.9

—-

*1I’ve been all over the Southern Sea, and I’ve never heard anyone call it “Bandithome.”*

*2Stupid propaganda and exaggeration. Khajiit don’t even take slaves, they suffered enough of it at the hands of the Dunmer House-lords in ages past.*

3*Ah, the old tale of “Vinnus Randas” was first printed as “I Was A Corsair’s Prisoner” in the old gossip rag* The Cyrod Inquiry, _which printed other “respectable” stories such as “Is Councilor Olwyn A Freehold Spy?” and “A Guar Ate My Baby!”. Can’t believe they put that garbage in here. Or maybe I can._

*4From what I understand, and I’m sadly an outsider, there are Baan Dar “codes,” not a single code. It varies from ship to ship and fleet to fleet. And usually sounds much more fair than any Company vessel, that’s for damned sure.*

*5That’s right, the people must all be too deep in the sugar to notice a pirate’s in charge of their city. Guarshit. It’s a pleasure city alright, but it’s not nearly as bad as they say.*

*6The so-called “corrupt” officials know what they’re doing, and have the Speaker’s full approval. The corsairs are local heroes to the people of Mistral.*

*7Hmm. Clever attempt there, Geographical Society. Make it sound like the Baandari in Southpoint are all foreigners and the locals want them gone. Doubt if anyone will fall for it.*

*8That senile old loudmouth Andronicus also said King Orgnum was the one organizing this pirate republic to destroy trade in the South, from what I recall. Which is nonsense, because the Maormer in the Baandari fleets are all belonging to those “breakaway clans” from what I understand, that owe no loyalty to their lich-king or whatever he is. Anyway, most corsair fleets outside Senchal only organize for a short time for a specific goal. There’s not a lick of proof they want to be a united republic.*

*9Potentate’s Guide to the Environs, or Propaganda Given by Edict?*
