Despite what maps say, there are in actuality two or even three Resdayns, each headed by a different figure in an unofficial triumvate. Resdayn as controlled by the [[Hortator]] and the [[Grand Council]] remains a conservative aristocracy dominated by the traditionalist House Redoran. The Grand Council rarely even considers candidates from the other Great Houses anymore, and so the urban Redoran nobility have grown decadent and lazy. Visiting the capital of [[Blacklight]], a traveler might think they’re in Firsthold among the preening patricians of Auridon^(1). The warrior traditions of House Redoran have been forgotten by the aging nobility in their extravagant crab-palaces, but thrive in the rural strongholds along the Velothi Mountains and northern wastes of Moestring where brave frontiersmer do battle with the occasional band of raiders. Most of the city Redoran have never seen a real battle at all. The guilds in Redoran territory are almost powerless when the Temple is not around; all must work for the glory and honor of the House, anything else would be selfish and greedy. 

Nowhere is the urban-rural divide more apparent than in public perception the [[Molag’kena]] (literally, “fire-scholars,” roughly equivalent to Nibenese Battlemages). Founded by Redoran Councilor Nartise Arobar in 4E 49 to deal with the epidemic of rogue Telvanni endangering the land and its people, they deal harshly with mages operating without proper license from one of the Great Houses or the Temple. (Outlanders and Ashlanders are largely exempt from these laws). Many nobles consider their existence an embarrassment, a throwback to the zealotry of the Ordinators, marching through the streets in full bonemold dragging away foolish young mages^(2). To the folk of the countryside, they are considered heroes protecting them from the dangers of power-mad wizard-lords; dangers the Dunmer of Resdayn know all too well. 

In [[Ald’Ruhn]], the rising power that is House Sadras plots to increase their influence on the Grand Council. As the (relatively) young Great House with no major holdings prior to the Red Year and the dark exile of Great House Hlaalu, the nobles of House Sadras are eager to prove their necessity to the society of Resdayn. They rebuilt much of Vvardenfell, and still dominate the majority of trade in the Inner Sea. Their mastery of maritime skills are owed to a smart blend of the warrior culture of their Redoran cousins, and the mercantile heritage of their spiritual progenitors in House Hlaalu. Their crafty negotiations with the Coral Citadels of the Dreughs have brought in many Dreugh mercenaries to the Army of the Hortator, much to the disgust of backwards-looking nationalists in the Temple who associate them with the “Ruddy Man” of ancient myth. 

The entire Telvanni Council, or “Parliament of Bugs,” has finally been officially moved to [[Sadrith Mora]] where the Telvanni can be closer to the political battleground that is Vvardenfell. Port Telvannis was mostly given over to Sload immigrants during the initial peaceful wave of slug-men fleeing [[Old Thras]], in exchange for cures to the [[Silver Plague]]. Not because the necromantic Telvanni needed the cures, they claim, but because they wanted to study them.

Archmagister Aryon continues his multiple-century-spanning struggle to modernize the ancient circle of sorcerers, even appointing a Sload to be his Mouth on the Parliament. It was his idea to invest most of the House Telvanni’s resources into rebuilding Vvardenfell shortly after the Red Year, and for a time this gave them a controlling stake in ebony and glass. Indeed, the great mining colony of [[Tel Nchuleft]] remains one of the most prosperous cities in the Telvanni territories. Using tonal amplification, they can blast away rock to find the precious metals underneath. There is danger in such techniques, such as tunnel collapses or permanent deafness, and so the Telvanni workforce consists mostly of ash servitors commanded by dust adepts.

The Telvanni Masters also have ambitions beyond Tamriel. N’Tani, Master Aryon’s aforementioned apprentice, has already declared her desire to expand Telvanni influence as far as Roscrea and Esroniet, and Master Talvas of Tel Mithryn is organizing an expedition to Apocrypha to establish an outpost in Oblivion and discover what happened to his former mentor. Whether colonial expansion will be enough to finally force this ancient organization of wizards to embrace modernity remains to be seen.

[[Narsis]], the City of Veloth, is where House Dres clings to a dying hope. Having lost almost all of their territory in the Greater Deshaan War, they have found an unexpected alliance with the Archein tribe of old Black Marsh. Archeins have settled into what is now called the Scaled District of Narsis. They’ve brought new agricultural techniques that aid in farming the swamps of southern Deshaan. More importantly; they’ve brought hard workers willing to perform labor at very reasonable prices and proud soldiers willing to die for the cause of Narsis’ freedom. The newly-adopted Argonian councilor tries his best to maintain peace between the two peoples, attending Reclamations Temple services on Loredas and Z’en church meetings on Sundas. It is to little avail; two rival gangs ruthlessly patrol their respective territories in the city. The Camonna Tong assault Argonians caught on the “wrong side,” and Haj-Uxith does much the same to Dunmer. Only their mutual hatred for the Kingdom of Argonia seems to keep the two factions aligned.

Resdayn as led by the barbaric Ashlander tribes is an eclectic mix of primitive nomadic lifestyles combined with a rising movement of progress and civilization. The Ashkhans of each tribe meet at the holy city of [[Holamayan]] to vote for a new Gah-Khan from among their numbers; a “great chief” who represents the tribal confederacy to outsiders and leads them in times of war. The Gah-Khan reigns for life, or until they lose an honorable duel, or until the inter-tribal council of Wise Women call for the Gah-Khan to step down. Though there are a multitude of Ashlander tribes and clans to encounter in Resdayn, most are allied with or subordinate to one of the Four Great Tribes: Urshilaku, Zainab, Ahemmusa, and Erabenimsun.

Since the formation of this new alliance in the early 4E 200s, every Gah-Khan has been a member of the Urshilaku Tribe. The Urshilaku gained much prestige as the keepers of the old prophecies after the coming of the Nerevarine, and their numbers soon swelled accordingly with Dunmer clanfriends hoping to “get in touch with their roots.” They used this power to convince the other tribes to form the Gah-Khanate, and later took advantage of the Greater Deshaan War to strongarm the Hortator into recognizing the Four Tribes as independent nations with rights and territories in exchange for Ashlander help in that conflict. Controlling central Vvardenfell and the heart of Red Mountain, the Urshilaku have become rich off the trade of heart stone, ash salts, and - of course - ebony. Their farseers can divine the best places to dig for ore, and know when and where to move to avoid the fires of Red Mountain. 

While half of Urshilaku continue to live as “true Ashlanders” wandering the wastes and living off of the land, others have taken to sedentary life, rebuilding ancient strongholds such as Marandus where the Ashkhan typically resides. The settled Urshilaku live on commerce, but still waste most of their profit in their archaic tradition of “sharing the bounty” among the tribe, further attracting many slothful vagabonds hoping to join their hearths. They are the most politically engaged, feuding with Sadras and Telvanni settlers and prospectors who violate the old treaties by mining on Urshilaku soil. The land granted to the Urshilaku by the Hortator was once considered Sadras jurisdiction, and the rulers of House Sadras have not forgotten the betrayal, though for now they are afraid of grumbling too loudly. Meanwhile, the Gah-Khan works to maintain an uneasy alliance with House Redoran and the Temple, not helped by the various religious and cultural divides. Their detractors among the tribes are put off by the growing “softness” of the Urshilaku and the leading Clan Sul, sometimes throwing around the name “House Sul” as if it is an insult. 

If the Urshilaku are too civilized for traditionalist Ashlander liking, the Zainab must be truly abominable. After the Red Year, they were forced to relocate to the Fungal Lowlands and the Padomaic Crest on the eastern arm of the mainland, where they still reside today. Only a small minority still lives as herders and hunters, most have become farmers, egg miners, and sailors. The gulakhans act as merchant-lords ensuring a stable and orderly flow of commerce, abandoning the foolish ideas of “hearth-sharing.” The Wise Women of Zainab have lost their theocratic dominance over the tribe, a fate they curse ruefully (and plot to undo). The other tribes look on the Zainab with envy and shame, while the Great Houses Dres and Sadras both compete for alliance with the Zainab Ashkhan, who enjoys playing the two against each other. The true place to watch is the borderlands between Telvanni and Zainab, where the wizard-lords ignore the treaties and continue to act as if all of the eastern peninsula still belong to them.

The Zainab are perhaps most proud of their insectoid livestock. They have saved several breeds from extinction - chiefly the silt striders and parraptons used for transportation, the sea striders used as transports and war mounts in naval combat, and skylamps used by travelers in dark ash storms. 

The other Great Tribes are more isolated. The Ahemmusa of the Sheogorad region fiercely defend their home from foreigners, using the magic and tactics learned from their Nord neighbors (even if they would never admit it), and live a semi-nomadic lifestyle as raiders, ice fishers, and horker herders. Meanwhile the Erabenimsun, weakest of the Great Tribes, wander the volcanic Stonefalls region herding shalk and guar. Once known for their ferocity in war, the reformer Ashkhan Han-Ammu preached a new doctrine in the wake of the Red Year: that war, greed, and violence had been the cause of Resdayn’s troubles, that a true warrior following the teachings of Veloth should fight not against flesh and blood but land and spirit. They see the struggle to survive the harsh terrain as a spiritual quest of continual self-renewal through experiencing hardship, and disavow violence of any sort except in self-defense (sometimes not even then). Needless to say, they have become easy prey for raiding Argonians and other tribes, and younger Erabenimsun are abandoning this philosophy to become mercenaries for the Great Houses.

The two Resdayns are united in part by the [[Temple of the Reclamations]], led by the Alma Rula. In the spirit of unity, the Temple has adopted many of the core theological positions of the Ashlanders: reverence for the Three Good Daedra, repudiation of “decadent living,” demotion of the “False Tribunal.” They even consider all leading Wise Women to be Matriarchs of Temple hierarchy. The barbarians themselves are of mixed feelings about this as formalized religion is, according to them, exactly what Veloth walked away from in the Merethic Era. However, the spiritual (and often literal) marriages between Urshilaku and Indoril have brought much influence to both.

The true power of the Temple lies in the Tongs. The [[Morag Tong]], disbanded during the Red Year, lived on as a mess of petty successor factions for a time. After an unfortunate misunderstanding in Raven Rock, the Temple decided to officially revive the old order, but firmly under the control of the Alma Rula acting as an intermediary for Mephala. The servants of the Webspinner continue to keep the peace by resolving disputes without large-scale war. It just so happens that this now includes murdering hapless settlers trying to live on unused land claimed by the wandering nomads in their treaties.^(3)

The [[Ouada Tong]] (“river guild,” for those of you lax in your Dunmeris lessons) grew up along the Thirr river in the central Deshaan region where, isolated from the rest of civilization during the Silver Plague, cenobitic monks and priests began to take the teachings of Saint Almalexia and the sermons of Tholer Saryoni to radical new heights. The opportunistic Alma Rula absorbed the Ouada Tong into the Temple as a sub-order and gave them a voice in Temple policy-making. The system is a far cry from the Elder Council’s rational approach to peasant rights, corrupted as it is by religious zeal, and it has allowed the Temple to become a thorn in the side of more dignified Houses such as Dres and Sadras; condoning and at times even encouraging rebellions against the rightful nobility. Especially when said rebellions serve to profit the Indoril.^(4)

…

\*^(1)\**Where do the tea-sipping snobs of the Geographical Society get the idea to throw stones in glass houses here? At least the Redoran have some sense of duty to their fellow mer.*

\*^(2)\**From what I hear, only the really bad mages get hunted down. You know the ones, the freaks in dark robes muttering about unlimited power or whatever. Your average mage is fine as long as they don’t go stirring up trouble.*

\*^(3)\**Unused land? I may spend most of my days on the sea but even I know how grazing works. And those settlers aren't so peaceful themselves, you know. Just last week I heard about a group of Sadras settlers near Lake Amaya burning tents and killing guar to scare off some Urshilaku nomads. Things got real tense before the Morag Tong “removed” the leader of those settlers and warned the others to leave. I’m just speculating, but I think there’ll be another civil war in Resdayn before long. Those Temple priests can’t keep the peace forever.*

\*^(4)\**I'll say this about those Temple Dunmer from Resdayn: they do take care of their own, even though they love to get condescending about it. No, what’s creepy about the Indoril is all that death cult stuff. Some people think the bonecharmers of Cheydinhal are strange, but in Necrom half the city’s population are the undead. Floating bonelords, skeletal guard nix-hounds, shambling flesh corpses of former priests. The living are almost as bad, covered in bone jewelry that supposedly allows them to constantly communicate with their ancestors. And they’re always quoting scripture: “learn by serving,” “let faith be your only law,” “death does not diminish, the ghost gilds with glory.” Eerie.*