The Abecean Sea is a central trade hub, locals would argue _the_ central trade hub, in western Tamriel. The Strid and Brina Rivers of Colovia drain into the Abecean, as does Hew’s Bay. Any sailor looking to travel north from the Southern Sea, east from the Sea of Pearls, or south from the Iliac Bay, will likely be enticed by the Abecean’s many diverse warm water ports. It should be little wonder the history of the region is littered with heroic admirals, cunning pirates, and bloodthirsty warlords in equal measure. From the All-Flags Navy of Bendu Olo and Syrabane, to the infamous Ra Gada, to the likes of “Pirate Queen” Fortunata ap Dugal, heroes and villains of every sort have left their mark on these shores. The cities of the area have grown rich from this constant push-and-pull, and a unique vibrant culture all its own has slowly evolved on the tumultuous waves. 

The [[Freehold Republic]] is the ripened fruit grown from this hybridized culture. At the center of their society is the concept of the “Free Hold,’ a city with the rights to govern itself. While the details may vary from city to city, the general schema follows that each citizen has a vote at the city council, or “kinhouse,” where local laws are passed and a canonreeve (or mayor) is chosen. Jurisreeves throughout the city, appointed by the kinhouse, hear crimes and punish the guilty. Citizenship is recognized by the acquisition of a calian signet ring or talisman necklace, a unique piece of jewelry which at once symbolizes one’s ancestry and place in the Path to Alaxon. The granting of citizenship to non-Altmer, and votes to all citizens, was at first met with some trepidation, but ultimately necessary for the Republic to function as an enterprise that could truly unite and integrate the many various cities and townships.

Of course, through marriage and financial entanglement, most of these councils find themselves dominated by the so-called “Sacred Families.” These families, (_calani_ to use the Altmeris term, which has no perfect Cyrodiilic translation), claim to trace their ancestry back to one of the Aedra as recognized in the Aetherquartz Book and represent the merchant-nobility in the Republic. Each sends a representative to the House of Kinlords on the capital isle of **Stirk**, where inter-city commerce laws are set, trade disputes resolved, and a new Prime Battlereeve (or grand admiral) of the Republic is appointed. Said Prime Battlereeve has the authority to draft ships throughout the Republic, appoint and dismiss sub-admirals, as well as other regulatory functions for the Republic navy. Of the many patrician families, six have become pre-eminent through wielding strong spiritual, military, and especially economic control over their respective hegemonies. These [[Sacred Six Families]] have practically become political parties in their own right, adopting members of lesser clans into their ranks to bolster their numbers against opponents at [[Stirk]].

Stirk also sets regulations and elects the leadership of the [[Auridon Paladins]], that elder order of law-keepers whose name is something of a relic. Once an organization of knights dedicated to the defense of Auridon, they now enforce the laws and regulations of the House of Kinlords across the Republic, ensure contract-breakers are taken to a proper authority, and suppress rebellion. The higher ranks of their order are truly a strange sight to behold; bodies modified by geomancy with reinforced malachite limbs and culanda-enriched ocularies. 

The present political situation was born of necessity. Coming out of the anarchy of the Third Aldmeri Dominion’s collapse, municipalities across the region were fragmented, and any larger government was more of an idea than a reality. The Abecean was under constant siege from Baandari pirates, the coasts littered with Pyandonean outposts, and smuggling a fact of life. Firsthold's Kinlord convened a council of like-minded nobles and merchants from across the Abecean to pool their private ships together under Auridon’s might, and they elected [[Andil Elsinor]] of [[Skywatch]] to be their first Prime Battlereeve. With the combined might of these merchant families’ wealth and power, the Pyandoneans and pirates were easily driven out. The [[Battle of Port Dibellum]] in 4E 247 especially was considered a turning point in Freehold naval history, and is now celebrated as Republic Day in every Freehold city on the 5th of First Seed. 

With a united navy, the Republic began to consolidate its rule. The powerful patrician families quickly set about restoring order to lawless ports, securing trade routes, and generally stabilizing the economy of the Abecean.1 Unfortunately, the families have since been reluctant to share their power. Though there are a few reformers in the House of Kinlords, the guilds of the Republic do not have the same voice in government that ours do, and there is no moderating executive to keep the competing factions in line. The rights of the Goblin-ken remain a concern; granted freedom by the Republic to compete with Alinor,2 most Goblins nevertheless remain unable to climb up the social hierarchy. 

The true heart of the Republic is without a doubt **[[Firsthold]]**, owed to its history, wealth, and prestige. According to local legend, it was the _first hold_, founded by Torinaan the Foresailor when the Altmer first landed on the Isle of Auridon. The most diverse and progressive of the traditional Altmeri settlements, it has been relatively welcoming to immigrants for much of its history, as evidenced by the benevolent reign of King Reman Karoodil and Queen Morgiah3 before their unfortunate demise at the hands of Thalmor butchery. It would be among the first cities to formally declare independence from the Thalmor during the Anarchy, led by the pragmatic Adariel Family who remain the largest power in the city to this very day. The exotic4 Diceto River flows through the center of the massive urban sprawl; a sprawl that extends upwards as well as outwards, enchanted skiffs taking travelers across the water and up the enormous edifices. Souldust from the enchantment workshops clog the air of the lower levels, and so the wealthy have largely moved themselves to the upper echelons of the city. The main headquarters of the [[Diceto Syndicate of Wizards and Enchanters]] is located here, that aristocratic rival to our own Nibenese [[Synod]], and whose innovation in the arcano-engineering industry was vital to the early wealth of the Republic when the Silver Plague necessitated a rise in magical automation. Monopolized almost entirely by the Adariel Family, it is the engine by which they remain the dominant power in Freehold politics.

Also based in Firsthold is the main office of the [[Praxic Consortium of Rightful Commerce]]. Formed in 4E 290, the enterprise has largely existed as a friendly rival to the [[East Empire Company]], controlling trade and shipping in the Abecean and even fielding its own private navy and militias, to rival the Republic’s state equivalent. The Praxic Consortium is managed largely by the Six Families, something critics are quick to label a threat to meritocracy5.

Further south lies **[[Skywatch]]**, with its great shipyards. Long the conservative rival to Firsthold, much of that old bitterness was put to rest when the Isles rose up against the Dominion and the Elsinor Family, a line from the warrior caste with strong ties to the admiralty, formed an alliance with the Adariels. Together, with other like-minded merchants, canonreeves, and rogue warriors of the Dominion, they unified the uprisings across Auridon into a nascent republic in the early days of the Silver Plague. Between the local Shipwrights Guild and the [[Hightide Naval Academy]], Skywatch is proudly considered by locals to be the home of the Republic Navy. Thus investment has poured into its industries over the last few decades as interest grows in supplying support to the Praxic Consortium as some in the Freeholder elite begin to harbor colonial ambitions. The Elsinor, for their part, insist upon the idea of _imperatum av vea_, that a strong centralized maritime state born on the seas will bound the peoples of the Abecean together for a common cause and defend them against common enemies.

Across the Blue Divide we sail to **[[Woodhearth]],** a city which is a healthy mixture of Bosmeri treepod and traditional Altmeri dwellings owed to the long history of their coexistence. The usual clouds of souldust one might expect in Auridon is noticeably absent here, due in part to local regulations on enchantment workshops that have earned the Bosmeri cities some ire from the Diceto Syndicate. It is also home to the Academy of Name-Singing, where students learn the fine art of nymic-deciphering so they become great stormwardens, greensingers, and Jephrine Paladins. 

[[Woodhearth]] has long been a bastion for the Camoran Family. A branch of that ancient dynasty fled here during the Bloodtoil Uprising, and married into the nascent Republic. Indeed, the Camorans have strategic marriages as far as the Direnni of Balfiera and the New Ayleids of Sunnamora. But marriage alone is not how they have secured their power, for their flexible interpretation of the Green Pact allows them to engage in commerce in ways their tribal enemies in the Bloodtoil Pack would never tolerate, and their patronage of the arts have made them heroes to the musicians of Tamriel.

Up to the Gold Coast is **[[Anvil]]**, once home to the Sailor-King Bendu Olo, whose many escapades across the western seas brought wealth and prestige to Colovia, not least of which was the famous battle of the All-Flags Navy against the Thrassian Fleet of the First Era. Today the Oloman’s City is still as lively as ever, brimming alike with hopeful sailors visiting the local Lucky Mermaid Gambler’s Club and pious theater-goers visiting the Coast Lily Opera House.

[[Anvil]] is also the power-seat of the Umbranox Family. Tracing their lineage in that region back to the middle Third Era at least, they have somehow survived war and plague to remain powerful merchants in the Republic, the greatest advocates of individual liberty and artistic freedom among the patrician class, but some suspect more nefarious truths underlie their facade. The Abecean gambling dens and houses of ill repute are all known to be in the Umbranox pocket, and some go as far as to claim all organized crime in the Republic is dominated by the Umbranox Family. True or not, the Primate of Dibella has denounced the Umbranoxes, much to the support of the local middle class who are taken aback by the rumored corruption and hedonism.6

Even further north up the coast we arrive at **[[Chasegard]],** flanking the eastern shores of Hew’s Bay. The city was founded by the second Warrior Wave in the First Era as another fort town for the conquering warlords of the ancient Redguards, which in time became a minor trading port for the Forebear merchant-nobility. Though often overshadowed in history by its neighbors such as [[Rihad]] or [[Taneth]], [[Chasegard]] was poised to take advantage of the new world that emerged from the ruins of the Silver Plague much better than those competitors. Taneth remained loyal to the Elden Yokeda, much to the later immiseration of the citizenry (see the [[Yokedate]] section of this Guide), while Rihad was far too ruined by the fallout of two Great Wars and an economy-devastating disease which they failed to efficiently respond to. Chasegard, by contrast, was less impacted by the war and became an early adopter of the Freehold Republic.

The oldest and wealthiest family in Chasegard is the Shraj Family, who control the mining and agricultural interests of the region. But they are especially known for their influence over the [[Geowrights of Zen]], an elite order of arcano-priests dedicated to the transformation of the natural world into new materials that can benefit mortalkind. The Geowrights’ influence can literally be felt all across the Republic, from the stone-wrought fashions and armor of the wealthy elite to the soul gems uncovered by their expert geomancers which power the Freehold economy. The Shraj have also been known to harbor refugees from the Yokedate, political castaways who do not agree with the Na-Totambu’s religious reforms or the Yokedas’ increased militarism. This has infused Chasegard and the surrounding region with an air of progress that, if carefully managed, could breathe new life into the Republic, or if not, risk breaking it down into anarchy.

Setting course westward, we find ourselves in **[[Abah’s Landing]]**. Founded, according to legend, by the conquering Prince Hubalajad himself during the same Warrior Wave as Chasegard, it spent much of the Second and Third Eras as a city of depravity and crime. Pirates and thieves from across western Tamriel once called it their home, taking advantage of Crown-Forebear infighting to control the surrounding peninsula, until the Fourth Era. The military reforms which brought about the modern Yokedate involved reclaiming Hew’s Bane and transforming it into a proper military training zone. Disagreements with the religious reforms of the Redguard Emperor - or [[Sheklith]] - led to the city seceding from the Totambu and hitching sail to the Freehold Republic instead. It is capital for the at-Reymon Family, one of the least consanguineal of the Six Sacred Families, being willing to adopt almost any merchant or sellsword who has impressed them enough. Their privateers make up the bulk of the Freehold pirate-hunters along the Baandari Coast, and it is rumored that “Abah’s Blades,” an order of dragonknights trained in No Shira Citadel, are in fact the secret agents and assassins of the Sacred Families.

Now we must turn our attention far to the south, where the Abecean meets the Southern Sea, at the island city of **[[Port Dibellum]].** The city is built atop old Colovian foundations dating back to the Reman Empire, with other architecture showing signs of Bosmeri, Altmeri, Khajiiti, and even Maormeri settlement.  During the interwar period, it had become a safe haven for sea-brigands of every stripe, using it as an outpost for their raids northward along the Drowned Coast. The harbor had grown quite prosperous by the time of the Silver Plague, and a major outpost for the sort of pirate leagues that would come to dominate the Baandari Coast. 

After the Battle of Port Dibellum, the situation shifted. The island came under the Republic’s influence, and in another two decades would become its greatest stronghold against piracy. Consortium patrols in the area are common, and the streets are regulated by Auridon Paladins and Black Knights of Ebonarm alike.7 Otherwise, the city is known for its pleasant atmosphere, and unique culture that blends customs from across Tamriel and beyond; the local temples and shrines to Khenarthi, Jephre, Phynaster, Satakaal, and of course Dibella are each resplendent in their idiosyncrasies. 

These are only the cities of greatest political import; consider also [[Greenheart]] (discussed in the Baandari Coast section of this Guide), ostensibly a member of the Republic but in fact dominated by the corsairs. Or the aforementioned Rihad, making a small comeback in the last two decades as a safe haven for free-thinking intellectuals of every sort, with a focus on political reform and curtailing the power of the Six Families. [[Vulkhel Guard]] has always been an important military city on the southern tip of Auridon, and there are discussions underway to join [[Gonfalon Bay]] into the Republic.

The future of the Republic remains in flux. Some groups, such as the militaristic mercantilists in Clan Elsinor or the reformists of the Shraj, seek to further establish a true centralized government along the lines of rival powers, be it to strengthen the state or reign in corruption. Other factions, such as the Adariels and the Umbranoxes, prefer to cling to the decentralized nature of the Republic that has empowered private enterprise and free trade. Meanwhile, on the local level various towns and cities fight for greater independence from regional hegemons.

Externally, tensions rise over trading and sailing rights to areas such as the Chain, [[Pankor]], and [[the Systres]]. Some of the Yokedate’s neighbors fear its expansionism, and look to the Freehold Republic to reign in the New Warrior Wave through embargo and blockade. Even in in the Auridon Strait, tempers flare as rival naval drills from [[Shimmerene]] and the Republic vie for the same waters. Southwards, the Republic continues to be pestered by piracy from the [[Baandari Coast]], which has resulted in the Camorans invoking loose interpretations of “Mourning War” and Rite of Theft customs to press former pirates into their service. Yet other ambitions look beyond Tamriel: the Praxic Consortium has announced plans to launch an expedition to trade with Yokuda, and at least one prominent Battlereeve has spoken openly of the need to lift the misty veil of Pyandonea and “liberate” the Maormer and their wealth from the tyranny of King Orgnum.8

—

1Ah, the famous “Gold Coast Conquests,” which could be described more accurately as: blockading ports that didn’t fall in line, extorting trade routes, and crushing any and all competition.

2”Granted” freedom, as if the [[Goblin rebellions]] were not organized across all the former Summerset Isles at the time.

3Ah, our High Excellency’s kid sister. History books don’t say what happened to her progeny…

4Polluted, so filled with used-up soulgems that the river's now some strange multicolored hue.

5If by “friendly” you mean in a constant game of trying to sabotage each other behind the scenes. Sometimes it gets bloody, though they usually make sure some poor middleman is the one bleeding. And, yes, it is a “threat” to meritocracy when the only way to rise in their big trade syndicates is to be adopted by some family of snobs.

6There’s no point in honey coating it, everyone knows the Umbranox family controls the Republic’s version of the Thieves Guild. But they aren’t champions of the common folk like they pretend, oh no, they protect favored landowners and people in their protection rackets. The other families tolerate it because it keeps crime “safe” and “orderly”.

7I’ve heard gossip around the table in Greenheart that the Umbranoxes bribe contacts on the Baandari Coast to avoid Port Dibellum. Makes one wonder just how useful, or corrupt, those knights and paladins really are.

8As if your sponsors at the East Empire Company wouldn’t be just as happy to loot those continents.
