_(You turn to the second chapter. It smells faintly of sulphur, and small yellow crystals roll down the page.)_

# Night Crawling on the Ground: The Iliac League

When the [[Silver Plague]] struck it disintegrated the bureaucratic glue of regional governments. This, by itself, is unremarkable. It is also unremarkable that when urban centres suddenly find themselves _de jure_ independent, they quickly fall to whatever clique can organise the best militia. What _is_ remarkable, however, is that two centuries later, these cities have still yet to rebuild the unitary kingdoms they were once ejected from. As such, the [[Iliac League]] is, in many ways, a devolution of politics that could only have been achieved by races as parochial as the Redguards and the Bretons.

But we digress. When the plague first struck the maritime west, it massively depopulated the countryside. Aristocrats, suddenly without rural labourers, poured into urban centres, abandoning their traditional domains. What they did _not_ abandon was their traditional role as the most militarised of the estates. Buttressed by strong tradition and superior armaments, formerly landed aristocrats and their knightly allies easily claimed victory in the various power struggles of the middle Fourth Era, called the _Jirhbré_ in Iliac Pidgin. As these aristocratic cliques liberalised, the long meritocratic office of knighthood essentially became one with citizenship, primarily as a result of political reform and concession1. Now, effectively all political power rests with the knights, called gallants in the south and men-of-the-host in [[Lainlyn]].

**Rulership: The Transiliac Diarchy and the Knights' Assemblies**

The Iliac League is, in theory, ruled by two elected kings2, but they struggle to exert true power over the league, and thus are little more than kings in name only. Each is based in [[Daggerfall]] and [[Sentinel]], cities which have traditionally attempted to exert authoritarian power3 over the Iliac League by monopolising the entrance to the bay. They initially rose to this position by exploiting the plague. To explain: The initial depopulation of the countryside lead to massive crop failure; this, coupled with immigration into the cities, lead to massive food stress across the urban centres of the Iliac. The only contemporary polity which produced the surplus food needed to relieve famine was [[Alinor]], largely due to the late Thalmor’s intense agricultural policies.

In exchange, the Iliac League developed a novel form of mass production using enchanted tools. They placed the souls of oxen into ploughs, those of spiders into looms. Although commonplace now, these techniques were a genuine innovation, at least for the time. However, sympathetic theories of enchantment are increasingly considered inefficient, and the knights still insist on enchanting one tool at a time. Using their combined navies, they made each other their respective export markets. Alinor provided raw goods, often agricultural, and the Iliac cities produced consumer goods and enchanted automation for the Sapiarchy4.

These kings convene and preside over the mechanisms of state in Balfiera, a traditional compromise between Daggerfall and Sentinel. Basing the city’s legislative and executive power in either city would grant one the capability to easily coup the League government—the Iliac Redguards and Bretons have not magically become two parts of the same race. As implied, it is also here that the legislature convenes.

The first chamber, called the [[Muster Assembly]], is elected by blocs called Banners. Each Banner is made up of individuals who’s total value equals the Muster Threshold, which is set by the legislature each decade. At the Muster Assembly’s inception, this value represented the cost of mustering one-thousand peasant levies for a season, thus the name. Because of this, a hundred wealthy citizens could make up fifty Banners, and thus have fifty representatives in the Assembly, while a hundred poorer citizens could make up five banners, and thus send five representatives. The system guarantees those who contribute the most to the League’s martial efforts—and also have the most to lose if it fails—have the greatest voice5. The Muster Assembly itself elects the kings and can write law, as well as confirm or reject law originating in the lower chamber.

The [[Lance Assembly]] is named for the traditional weapon of the mounted knight. This is in spite of the fact that the works of [[Risandru Gnossu]] (4E366) have thoroughly proven that the vast majority of knights, even pre-pandemic, were not cavalry, regardless of the popular ideal. Still, the Lance Assembly is made up of representatives elected by blocs called Platoons, which are—in theory—the battle-ready companies that each knightly order could raise during war. Seats in the Lance Assembly are divided amongst knightly orders according to each order’s size; because of this, smaller orders (especially those relegated to single cities) often have to form coalitions to battle the influence of larger orders (many of these attached to religious organisations spanning the whole bay). The Lance Assembly elects high court judges, sets the budget, and can pass laws.

Admittedly most analysis of Iliac civics is purely theoretical. The privileges of the cities themselves are unbreakable by Balfiera—the government there mostly represents a ritualistic confirmation of the cities’ consent to non-aggression and mutual defence6.

It is perhaps this dysfunction that has frustrated Iliac attempts to reclaim the countryside, which remains infested by a shadow society of druids and witches that Balfiera insists are merely upstart bandits. Reports (at least those that survive even cursory expeditions into the forests) suggest that a Witch-King, or witch-kings8, have seized the countryside, consistently besting the knights of the bay. [[The Roundtable Expedition]] of 4E311 failed so spectacularly that it nearly bankrupted the League and triggered the Constitutional Crisis of the Long Fall.

**Armed Forces: The Three Ridings and the Withering Armada**

It should be noted that these failures are remarkable. The League has pioneered novel forms of combat, including the Three Ridings Formation. This doctrine divides platoons into one third spearmen, one third sword-and-shield heavy infantry, and one third sorcerer. In short, the heavy infantry provide defensive wards and counter-infantry, the spearmen counter shock tactics, and the sorcerers provide offensive barrages, even from range. The Three Ridings are exceptionally strong defensively and have shown great success in amphibious landings.

Regardless, failures to reclaim the countryside have damaged their reputation. Particularly as the lack of timber—perhaps the resource most vigorously defended by these Jephrine witches—has hamstringed the League’s shipbuilding efforts, crippling what was once one of the most dynamic navies in Tamriel. This is as the[[Freehold Republic]] and the Potentate7 continue to push the envelope on maritime technology. It seems unlikely that the League's long-term ambitions of establishing a permanent colonial project in [[Yokuda]] will be fulfilled without such an advantage in oceanic sailing.

**Notable Locales**

**Balfiera** is the formal capital. Greater Uubael (once Upvale) hosts the Palatial Monastery of _Jivil-mà-Bael_, where the assembly meets. The island in whole is owned in condominium between the League government and Clan Direnni, making it the only land the government can claim to truly administer, and even then only by compromise. The combined investment from the Old Clan and the League has revitalised the island, turning it into a centre of military and civilian metallurgy, fulfilling the niche once occupied by High Rock’s northern baronies. Dubbed the _Niello Renaissance_, armaments smothered in black and rich golden décor have become the signature of the Iliac9, typically employing a design philosophy centred on modern reimaginings of classical elven styles. Dressed in such armour, Ridings of knights notoriously look like a portion of the night sky—glittering wildly—that trawls across the earth.

**Daggerfall** is the centre of the bay’s northern half, dominated by the Knights of the Dragon; it is no surprise that the Iliac king originating from this city is also often the group's Landmaster-Paladin. The Kynaran Order also maintains chapterhouses here, often competing with the Dragons to consolidate the region under their control. They too have occasionally provided Iliac kings. Although the city itself continues to grow and prosper, it is not without ancient malady.

The spirit of King Lysandus once haunted the city, and it seems the land is left with a weakened divide between it and the other worlds: Ghosts frequently patrol the city at night despite attempts at widespread exorcism. Many of these spirits, however, are benign—as such, the attitude of the city has increasingly become ‘live and let live’ when it comes to their ghostly neighbours. Some whisper that when the League’s enemies arrive on Iliac shores, legions of ghosts will wash across Tamriel, wiping the wicked away. These beliefs, falling under the widening umbrella of Bretonnic apocalypticism, increasingly characterise a culture terrified of the future10.

The southern star, **Sentinel**, remains under the sway of the Order of the Candle. As a merchant haven and a traditional centre of Zeht worship, it is also here that the League mints coins and engages in what financial governance it can. The League's inability to harvest its own raw resources may seem to hamper their mint, but the Iliacs have admittedly formed robust solutions to this problem. Supplies of gold are gathered from the various rivers that flow into the bay, gathered by wide, incredibly well-made nets draped across their mouths. Silver, meanwhile, is harvested from the deep seas using alteration magic, transmuting naturally dissolved silver into its pure solid form. Once brought back to Sentinel, the two metals are alloyed into electrum.

The Electrum Standard makes Iliac currency exceptionally valuable relative to coins minted in the rest of Tamriel. Because of this, the League's artisans and manufacturing companies can import raw resources from nations employing weaker coinage at significantly cheaper costs. As such, profit rates for manufactured goods are higher in the Iliac than anywhere else. (In dire situations, the League has even been known to apply negative tariffs on raw resources, keeping the gross economic output of the League consistently growing at best and consistently static at worse, even if this growth is usually lower than other states and their improving production methods.)

**Wayrest** sits further within the bay than its cousins Daggerfall and Sentinel, and it was for this reason that it was snubbed during the constitutional birth of the Iliac League. The Order of the Rose has since divided into the the [[Order of the White Rose]] and that of the Black. The two now wage a shadow-war across the eastern bay. The White Rose advocates for the success of the Iliac project, while the Black pushes for Wayrest to secede, ideally dragging as much territory as it can with it. The Black Rose has been a consistent thorn in the League as a whole, receiving support from whatever polity the League is spatting with at the time.

**Religion**

There is no one religion in the League. Any in-group out-group delineation is done by the people's dedication to the ideals of decentralism and anti-feudalism. As such, hundreds of spirits thrive in the bay. The traditional eight maintain a comfortable position, and each city is free to adopt its own deific patron. Certain spirits like Vir Gil, Genius of the Sea, (if he does exist) have firmly remerged in the public consciousness, especially with the League's dedication to thalassocracy.

This slipshod approach to liturgy likely contributes to the rate at which the Iliac seems to go through religious reawakenings. When the Niello Renaissance began, Ebonarm worship resurfaced (one can only assume niello colouring naturally lead to this), with various historical figures: Gaiden Shinji, Emeric, Corvus Direnni, etc., being cited as 'Ebonavatars'.

The current trend, Bretonnic apocalypticism, seems thoroughly rooted in cultural trepidation. It does perhaps not help that sightings of Golem have steadily increased. Most reports are consistent: a brass giant, with a heart like a star, walking across the distant landscape. Any attempts to move closer to it result in failure, as these mirages seem to exist at a fixed distance relative to the observer. This is not alarming, or it wouldn't be, except that this apparently fixed distance is decreasing over time.

Delving through ancient galleries and old memoirs, Iliac historians are beginning to realise that Golem is mentioned in the barest of terms by classical writers, and was even painted in the far distances of old landscape pieces, including those dated before the Warp in the West11.

Must it really be admitted that it was always there?

**Closing Observations**

For the League, the future is dim and full of anxiety. In the south, irredentism brews, and the Iliac’s lagging innovation may mean doom for their Three Ridings on Yoku sands. Their natural ally in this fight, Freehold, has instead been a traditional rival (along with the Potentate) that has frustrated Iliac trade across the southern seas. If tensions between Freehold and Alinor ever spill over, then the Sapiarchy may call on their traditional mainland ally to bolster the Altmeri navy, finally threatening Auridon's wooden wall. There are those who fear, whether mostly unfounded or _incredibly_ unfounded, that conflict in the south may open an opportunity for [[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]] to invade, restabilising the brutal tyrannies of feudalism over the bay12. (Indeed, street preachers claim this 'inevitable' invasion was spoken of in the Elder Scrolls, and will trigger the End of Time.)

Any hopes of Balfiera responding to these existential threats are dashed by factionalism and political tendencies. The mutual separatists hope to dissolve the League, building two strong unitary states based on traditional ethnic lines, centred on Daggerfall and Sentinel respectively. Those who wish to preserve confederalism and liberty believe Daggerfall and Sentinel’s mutual rivalry keeps either off the reins of state; ergo the League must be maintained in its current bickering form. Meanwhile, so-called ‘Young Chevaliers’ look to prelapsarian delusions of High King Emeric, hoping to ratify the formal federalisation of the League into a United Covenant of the Iliac States. That is assuming it survives another constitutional crisis13.

For the League, one axiom holds true: Reform or die.

—

1They call themselves knights, but knights have horses. The Bretons ate all their horses during the plague. You wanna be a knight, you gotta have money; everyone else gets a big ‘fuck you’ and the privilege of getting crushed underneath someone else’s metal boot. A boot that still has big fuck-off stirrups, for some reason.

2Y’know, the thing about certain lies is that they rely on the truth. There are no kings in the Iliac League. Saying that's a sure-fire to get drowned in the harbour, actually. I’d know: Every sailor’s been there at some point, but I guarantee that some of my dopier crew mates would read this and agree with it. See, in the League they have things called _Erhkoū_. That means ‘conductor’. It comes from Direnni, so there’s probably a close cognate in Niben-Tamrielic. At the very least, there’s a better translation than 'king'.

3Yeah, I'm sure back then that proto-_Erhkoū_ were trying to exert 'authoritarian' power, but these days most of them are content with the little authority they have. Really, they just serve as military leaders for a decade, then move on. Well, except for the few times they did they try to seize power. At the very least none of them have succeeded yet? Testament to the state's ability to resist tyranny, I guess.

4The Potentate’s never forgiven Alinor for picking the Bretons over them. Helseth should’ve known better; the Altmer weren’t going to risk trading past the Baandari Coast, and the Sea of Ghosts just wasn’t viable. Dunmer carry grudges though—it’s about all they’re good at. I hope it keeps him up at night.

5I can almost _hear_ the author jacking himself off over the page. There's nothing sexier than plutocracy when it comes to parasites.

6Well, if you take a magnifying glass to things you'll see that the League's government has historically stepped up when it needed to, during crises and whatever. All things wax and wane; ain't nothing truly static.

7Ha.

8Nice people, actually. Academics in Cyrodiil like to think its a big unknown but really the League knows pretty well what they're up against, they just don't want to advertise it so the rest of the world doesn't get any ideas of recognising the independent sovereignty of basically all their land.

9I once _obtained_ a sabre from Balfiera. It's black like ink, and there're gold tigers prowling across the blade.

10To quote Zurin Arctus, 'shit's fucked and everyone's scared.' Yes, that is a real quote. No, I don't feel the need to source it.

11I've seen it. It always walks towards the moons. Lonely old thing.

12Wrothgar would never bare an occupation of the League. It would be an island of anti-monarchy within a traditionalist state.

13A lot of idiots like to think that the League's problems could easily be solved by one strong leader. That's the issue with their holistic view of virtue and knighthood. Beauty, magic, talent, wisdom, kindness all just another part of essential gallantry. When you have such a culturally inflexible idea of goodness it's easy to put your faith in people—even self-interested, vain, power-hungry people.