The race of beastfolk known as the Sload have historically been associated with their reclusiveness, practice of necromancy, and repeated invasions of other lands, especially Alinor, in the First Era. They were long reviled by the rest of Tamriel for the release of the Thrassian Plague in 1E 2260, which devastated the entire known world. Their home, the coral island of Thras, was sunken into the sea by the All-Flags Navy shortly afterwards, an event which was widely celebrated as the “Fall of the Sload.” However, the slug-men, as well as their home, miraculously resurged several hundred years later and began their invasions anew. 

As time went on, attacks from the coral island became decreasingly common, and by the late Third Era Sload sightings had all but ceased, with many speculating that they had secluded themselves on their isle permanently. Though they remained elusive throughout the early Fourth Era, the Aldmeri Dominion secretly prepared protective measures for Summerset, fearing an invasion while their resources were being diverted to the anticipated Second Great War. These fears never came to fruition, however, and Alinor remained unassailed.

With their most aggressively pursued goal left alone at its most vulnerable and Tamriel occupied with the [[Second Great War]], Thras’ presence was nearly forgotten entirely. This changed when the [[Silver Plague]] began to spread. The Sload were immediately suspected, and when the Second Great War ended, expeditions to investigate Thras were planned by several provinces. So widespread and devastating were the effects of the plague, however, that no such endeavor was carried out until 4E 219, when a joint effort was made by the [[College of Winterhold]] and the Royal Navy of [[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]] to finally see what had become of the inhabitants of the migrating isle. All they found when they arrived was a massive island that had seemingly erupted from the ocean, abandoned aside from a small group of religious zealots who devote their lives entirely to attempting to climb the Pillar of Thras, which expanded along with the rest of the island and now extends into the sky as far as the eye can see.

Mere months after this expedition, perhaps because of it, Thrassian refugees began to emerge on the shores of Tamriel. They were at first met with fear and hostility, with many assuming that invasions were being carried out on their weakened provinces. Many Sload were killed in what are now called the [[Thrassian Fear Massacres]]. Eventually they were able to communicate without danger, though to the disgust and outrage of many, by sending reanimated corpses to convey messages to the local governments. Some Sload that reside in regions that are traditionally more hostile may still utilize this practice, though it largely fell out of use after the plague ended. 

The Sload made a lucrative offer: they wanted to live in these new lands, and to be accepted into society, at least so far as not having to fear for their lives. In exchange, they claimed to have created a cure for the Silver Plague, which they would supply to the denizens of their new homes. This was, of course, met with suspicion and incredulity, and no government initially accepted the offer. However, the citizens of Tamriel were desperate, and it wasn’t long before they began to make their way to the secluded swamps and lagoons that the slug-men hid themselves in, offering up their land and homes in exchange for the cure for themselves or dying loved ones. Once the first reports of successfully cured Afflicted began, word spread like wildfire, and droves of men and mer sought out the Thrassian refugees, hoping to be healed of the dreaded disease. Eventually, small settlements came entirely under the ownership of local Sload, and many still preside over these towns as Barons.

[[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]] were the first kingdom to officially accept the Sload’s offer, and granted them large pieces of land in exchange for a continual, albeit slowly produced, supply of the cure. Many others soon followed suit, although the [[Yokedate]] staunchly refused, and the anarchy in Alinor made it impossible for them to accept in a formal capacity. Thrassians can now be found all throughout Tamriel. Though some still treat them with caution or even disdain, they have largely integrated into society.

By the time the first refugees from the Coral Island arrived in Black Marsh sometime around 4E 222, they were already becoming a common sight in other provinces, and their motives were presumed to be the same as their brethren. Perhaps this is what caused the traditionally fierce and unencroachable Argonians to let down their guard. The large, organized group of Sload that swam into the swamps of [[Lilmoth]] did not bring a cure, but the invading force that all had initially feared. They swiftly took the city, and the Argonians lost many in the siege. Across Black Marsh, preparations were made to defend against a full-scale invasion, but strangely, none came; the  group of Sload that took the city seemed content with what they had acquired. 

Attempts to take Lilmoth back were continually thwarted, the Argonian forces repelled by their own dead. But something else kept them away as well; the forest around the city continually seemed to shift, and any who drew near to it reported experiencing powerful hallucinations. The Argonian priests consulted the Hist, and the answer was revealed to them: the rogue Hist of Lilmoth, which had been involved in the infamous Slaughter at Lilmoth in the early years of the Fourth Era, had regrown from its severed roots. It seemingly assisted the Sload in their capture and defense of the city, and had perhaps even called them there in the first place. The Argonians, still suffering from the plague and the losses from the initial invasion, withdrew from the area around Lilmoth entirely, secluding it as best they could from the rest of Black Marsh. Two years passed, and though smoke began to rise day and night from the rogue city, nothing was seen of the Sload.

During this period, Argonians began to go missing from their homes. At first the disappearances went largely unnoticed, as during the time of the plague it was not uncommon for some to simply die in their beds, only to be discovered later. However, as the vanishings became more frequent, the [[Shadowscales]] were called upon to investigate. When they did, they not only found their mass graves for the Afflicted empty, but also that rogue tribes of Argonians had begun living in and around Lilmoth. Whether they are willing residents or have been enthralled in some way is unclear, as no direct contact has been made with them. What is known is that the Sload of Lilmoth, now called [[New Thras]], continually carry out experiments whose full purpose remains unknown. They utilize both living and undead Argonian laborers, the latter of which are occasionally used to communicate with outsiders, though never with the natives of Black Marsh. 

Primarily, they seem to serve arrangements with a small number of Tamrielic Sload who supply a Hist Sap concoction, commonly called Thrassian Grog or [[Grub-Rot]], to dealers that peddle it along the [[Baandari Coast]]. This has been outlawed in nearly every province, not for its dangerous properties, but because it is produced with labor from undead Afflicted. Though no new cases of the Silver Plague have been reported since 4E 237, none are eager to tempt fate, and so New Thras’ only export remains highly illegal. Today, the former city of Lilmoth remains untouched, the endeavors of its Sload rulers undisturbed, but watched warily by all who surround it.