When it comes to the Bjoulsae Horsemen1 of the [[Great Steppe]], finding definitions and delineations is an arduous task - one not aided by the myriad of myths that have sprung up around them.

There are a few common threads among the Bjoulsae. First - all groups appear to draw some measure of ancestry from Breton populations, tracing back to the Bjoulsae of [[Evermore]] from which the name “Bjoulsae” originates. Second, a shared language, in the form of what appears to be a heavily Centaur-influenced, if not outright Centaur in whole, dialect, that serves as a trade language for the northwestern Steppe region. Third, a religion whose tenets include some form of belief in fire as a cleansing force. Fourth, and most obvious, is the shared lifestyle of horseborne nomads and raiders.2

Beyond these threads, it is difficult to firmly identify anything distinctly “Bjoulsae”. The practice of slavery has been proposed as being another commonality, yet not all Bjoulsae groups practice slavery, and even in those that do the institution varies widely. Even more, Bjoulsae tribes appear to blend and split to an almost excessive degree, rendering clear delineations between groups nearly impossible.

As of the present day, there are several widely recognized major Bjoulsae groups.

The **Veinhouse Bjoulsae** are the most (relatively) settled and sedentary of all Bjoulsae tribes, with a culture that revolves around the extraction and processing of ores. Located to the far northwest of the Great Steppe, the Veinhouse Bjoulsae have traditionally held the lands around [[Ska’vyn]], [[Cliff Keep]], and the southwestern coast of [[Lake Malazar]]. In recent years, [[Yokedate]] expansion eastwards has put the Veinhouse Bjoulsae into open conflict with the forces of [[Stros M’Kai]] and [[Hegathe]], reinforcing their reputation as among the most aggressive and antagonistic of all the Bjoulsae tribes. Veinhouse Bjoulsae appear to have the greatest amount of Yoku blood present in their ancestry among Bjoulsae groups, with lesser but still significant amounts of Breton admixture and small amounts of Colovian heritage from captured and traded populations.

The **Cairn and Garden Bjoulsae** reside primarily in Craglorn, from the southeastern shores of Lake Malazar through the western reaches of the Jeralls, with members of this subculture as widely dispersed as the Colovian Highlands. Cairn and Garden Bjoulsae erect sets of cairns and gardens at regularly visited locations along their migration paths, leaving their elderly to tend to each. These sites appear to serve as central locations for cremation of the dead and spreading of ashes. One of the most migratory and wide ranging Bjoulsae groups, Cairn and Garden Bjoulsae are more often seen in the presence of Centaurs than other tribes, and present a more typical Breton phenotype on average, though with significant amounts of Yoku blood and, curiously, Merish traits, possibly from captured Orsimer and Bosmer.

**Trans-Colovian Bjoulsae** are not a major cultural group as such, but rather a recognition of migratory and raiding patterns carried out by the nomads. Such patterns bring the horsemen into and through the Colovian region of the Great Steppe, where they often come into conflict with other, primarily Colovian, nomads and wildlanders, as well as irregular raids on the territories claimed by the Estates.

The Bjoul Invasion of Colovian in 4e320 appears to have been an unprecedented, and as of yet unrepeated, act of cooperation between Bjoulsae groups, with recorded depictions of horsemen matching tribes from all across the Steppe. The ultimate cause of the invasion has never been determined, though as yet unproven theories on religious fervor or population pressure are the most common explanations. In recent years, it has been noted that as the Yokedate expands eastwards Veinhouse Bjoulsae appear more frequently in raiding groups in Colovia, as well as in apparent inter-Bjoulsae conflict in Craglorn. Furthermore, reports from traders in the northwestern Steppe suggest that a powerful warlord known as “[[Pennethal]]” has arisen, stirring unrest and gathering tribes to his banner. 3

For those travelling the region, interactions with the Bjoulsae will always carry a significant amount of risk. Historically the horse tribes have been antagonistic to those travelling the Steppe, though not universally so. As such, it is highly recommended to travel in groups and to go well armed, as well as bringing trade goods and coin to barter and trade with bands that are encountered. Additionally, hiring of guides familiar with the region is highly encouraged - navigating the unsteady cultural landscape as well as the lands of the Steppe itself are essential talents that are worth their weight in gold. 4

-------

1. _Also known, internally and externally, as the [[Bjoul]], the Horsemen, the Men-of-Bjoul, Flame’s Chosen, the bastard get of Evermore and Hammerfell, the Clans, the Tribes, Dagon’s Spawn, & many more, most even more colorful. Pick your favorite._
    
2. _Also herders. Goats, cattle, and of course horses. Apparently their horses fetch pretty prices in the right markets._
    
3. _The latest in a line of warlords trying to build a Bjoul nation. Sounds like he has most of the Veinhouse behind him, not so much the others._
    
4. _If you’re wondering why the EEC knows so much about the Horsemen & how to interact with them, it’s because they’ve been hiring them as mercenaries for years. Give them some gold, tell them who to harass and not harass, promise land and titles. Always second-class to their GIG soldiers, but they keep coming._