Nothing speaks of the diversity of Iliac Bay culture than what can be found in her cities. While [[Daggerfall]] and [[Sentinel]] rose to further power in the wake of the Silver Plague and Wayrest (reluctantly) went back to humbler roots, [[Camlorn]] has remained a jewel in the midst of Glenumbra’s hills and fens. A rather darkly gleaming jewel, if one were to be honest enough, with 2 patrons. On the northern end of the city lies the Cathedral of Arkay. The Arkayns are often seen taking pilgrimages further north to tend to Cath Bedraud and the nearby tombs for the citizenry. With the number of tombs that had to be opened (and re-opened) in the plague years, it is difficult for the traveler to tell where the Cath Bedraud begins and ends within the fields of the dead. The maze of fences and gates above ground, combined with the twisting passages of catacombs below, can be vexing for those without a guide. It is highly recommended to the traveller to only go on a pilgrimage in Cath Bedraud as part of a Cathedral group or with one of the [[Knights of the Circle]]. It should be noted that punishments for graverobbery, necromancy and assorted other defilement of the dead are extreme in Camlorn.

On her southern end, there is the Temple of Dibella. [[The Prostitutes Guild]] is, not surprisingly, strongly affiliated with the temple and maintains its housing on either side of the Temple. It has been said that it is the adherence to Dibella that keeps the Guild from falling into more Sanguine-esque ways. The long-standing Festival of Flowers in First Seed sees a vast array of lilies offered on the temple’s steps. For those of a more artistic leaning, the Temple provides many unique paints and dyes for a reasonable donation. After the end of the Silver Plague, a new festival began in Camlorn. In the closing days of Frost Fall, there is a week-long festival that sees both the Cathedral and the Temple driving the celebration. Cycles of the Dead is perhaps one of the wilder times for Arkayns, where the rites of the dead often require a more somber outlook. The Arkayns will be seen in bright red or purple vestments during this week instead of their more neutral colors.

During the Cycles of the Dead, Camlorn’s streets are adorned with silvered lilies and various bones. The trees lining the streets clatter with the sound of hollow bone chimes in the wind. The horses of the [[Order of the Gilded Lily]] and Knights of the Circle are decorated with silver plates and silver beads on the braided manes as they are paraded through the streets. In the outer ring of the city’s walls, bonfires are common with offerings burnt in the hopes that Arkay will keep the plague away for another year and spare the horses that have been brought in. Masks are common among revelers. Many of the masks are those of death with stylized eyes in a closed position, while the clothing is decorated in bright floral displays. For those not wearing masks, a silvery salve is often used on exposed skin. The Prostitute’s Guild is one of the suppliers of the salve. Costs vary.
 
 Meals often feature mock-horse meat in reference to the horses that were slaughtered to feed the populace in the harrowing plague years. It is my understanding that that the contents depend on the chef. While some recipes use apples, carrots, currants, lentils, and spices (particularly the ones in pasties sold on the street side), there are those that use a blend of ground venison and goat. Followers of the Green Pact are encouraged to ask the chef for any concerns regarding the contents used.