*Seated on the Thirr river, Mournhold remains the most popular pilgrimage site for faithful Dunmer in Resdayn and a trade hub in the Deshaan region. The Ouada Tong, in partnership with the East Empire Company, offers tours of the most important historical sites in the former capital of the Star-Wounded East. As you arrive by boat at the western docks coming in from the river, take note of the East Empire Company offices and warehouse buildings, taking in local marshmerrow and other cash crops picked by the local Tong-backed farmers. Despite rumors to the contrary, slavery is still abolished in Resdayn, the enduring legacy of the Potentate’s sagacious influence. Also on the docks you may find the headquarters of the Ouada Tong, a sub-order of the Temple founded to provide representation to the common people of Resdayn, in line with the ideals of Saint Almalexia whose presence is still felt in the City of Love.*

*Once you are inside the Mourning Hold, you will notice that Godsreach, once a noble district, is now primarily dedicated to Craftsmer halls of every sort. The Hall of Saint Aralor houses tanners, the Hall of Saint Delyn potters and glassmakers, the Hall of Saint Llothis tailors and dyers, and the Hall of Saint Sil artificers and clockmakers. The Resdaynian Tongs are not as open as western Guilds, being tied to the Temple and Dunmeri heritage. If you are an outlander looking for employment, you would be best advised to search elsewhere. Godsreach is also the location of the famed Winged Guar. The Nerevarine is said to have slept in the very tavern, and it remains a popular drinking spot, open to outlanders so long as you remain polite and keep your religious beliefs to yourself.*

*In the center is the Palace of Barenziah, Saint-Mother of Potentate Helseth, now occupied by the Grandmaster of House Indoril. Pilgrims from the Potentate frequently visit to pay homage to the ancestral home of Saint Barenziah, only to be coldly greeted by Indoril oathmer annoyed at the frequent visits from Western “heretics.” The Indoril still hold power in Resdayn through the Temple and, by extension, the Tongs. Hold yourself with the highest decorum in the Palace, for you represent the Potentate in this divided land.*

*To the north lies the High Temple district, where the current Alma Rula, Indoril Valys, reigns. The Temple has been reconsecrated in the name of the Reclamations, but a shrine to Saint Almalexia remains tucked away in a corner. The Morag Tong guildhall is located on the eastern end of this district, that old order now answering directly to the Alma Rula as the mortal voice of Black-Hands Mephala. The Morag Tong rarely takes writs of execution that are not aligned with Temple interests, which are also Indoril interests. If you have criminal intent, do not expect these assassins to sell their service; they are* not *the Dark Brotherhood of old.*

*The southern part of the city, Plaza Brindisi Dorom, contains free clinics and hostels for those unable to afford other taverns. More pertinent to the history-minded traveler, it is the entrance to the ancient ruins of Bamz-Amschend, a vast underground museum of Dwemer artifacts located in what was once an actual Dwemer city. You will have a chance to see their schematics for centurion spiders, the ancient Dumac currency, and even a working colossus. The museum also contains miniaturized replicas of Dwemer animunculi in the gift shop. The museum curators, the Eastern History Society, are dedicated to connecting the modern people of Tamriel to the ancient world of Lost Dwemeris.*

*The eastern section of the city is the Great Bazaar. It is here you will find exotic foods and ingredients from across the eastern continent, from Belladonna berries from Solstheim to the hackle-lo leaves of the Bitter Coast to salamander meat from Narsis. The latest fashions from Auridon can be purchased, as well as Alto wine imported from Eastmarch. The Bazaar is also home to the Mournhold Players outdoor theater. They still put on all of the old classics, such as* The Horror of Castle Xyr *and* A Hypothetical Treachery. *This year, however, Drayvis Sandus announced his intention to put on a new historical drama called* Ebony and Ruby, *which will promote his desires for greater friendships between the Potentate and Resdayn. Conservative Indoril elements are already calling for boycott, but the common folk are excited for a tribute to the Dunmer people’s greatest leaders, Clan Ra’athim.*