Before setting your sights on the lengthy travel outside of the Potentate it is a good idea to first explore all our homeland has to offer. The city of Bravil stands second only to the Capital in the amount of visitors it receives. Majority of them are the pilgrims from all over Tamriel, and most of the rest are researchers and historians, as the Temple - the Benevolence, as it called - holds its vaults and libraries open. One of the most curious exponates is a miniature model of the interior as it looked in the Third Eras, under what is now known as 'Septim doctrines' - stark and simple, with only stained glass windows devoted for individual Divines for decoration. Where once Thousand Cults flourished, then were only parishioners hurrying to the Sundas service.

Currently, the Benevolence presents itself much differently, as over the last centuries it was extended both over and under the ground. Smaller chapels, annexes, subdivided chambers - all of them are devoted to the different aspects of the Mother. Each is full of small statues, figurines, portraits and icons of Mother's Saints. Day and night the Benevolence is illuminated by the soft glow of thousands upon thousands of candles and scented oil lamps the pilgrims light as a prayer, a thanks, or just a remembrance.

Some of the chambers contain tombs of the important characters of the Temple history, chief among them the Primate [[Fianna Georick]], who played a crucial role in overturning the Septim doctrines back in the third century. 

An astronomer, a researcher and a priest, she is said one day to nail a pamphlet with her theses at the door of the Temple - the original of the pamphlet is displayed under glass over her tomb. In this paper she succinctly argued against the dogmatic rigidity of the Cult of the Eight, against the astronomical nonsense of identifying the Divines with the planets and against the simplistic characterization of the Divine spheres of influence. Instead, she argued for meditation and strive for self-improvement for laypeople, assisted by the mendicant priesthood.

She later defended her position in the public debate, and the popular legend  insists she was pronounced the new Primate on the spot by the cheering crowd. The reality was more complicated, and it took her several decades to gain the position. The theological dispute between the candidates, however, had become the tradition in the following century, and now is used to elect not only the Primate, but also the head priests of various local temples.

This transition to community-elected priesthood went not without issues, but the intervention of the Elder Council prevented the all-out religious conflict with the Archbishop of the One. The atmosphere at the [[Council of Eight]] still remains tense, though, and each new [[Primate]] of Mara demands recognition and a personal invitation before coming to the Imperial City.

*YgM: It is certainly convenient to have religious leaders owing you favors, can't argue.*

Another notable tomb - and another important character in the Benevolence history - is Primate [[Maralie Balu al-Riften]]. It is under her guidance that Fianna's general idea of self-improvement and her inspirations from the Breton folk theology had taken the shape of the doctrine of the Saints as we know it. In a very similar way to the Ancestors doctrine of the Arkay Temple of [[Cheydinhal]], but going even a step further, Primate Maralie had recognized the sacrifices of all those mortals who have stepped past the mortal death, and preceded by Mara (in any of her shapes, including the Loving Mother and the Fierce She-Wolf) exhibited miracles or imparted knowledge in the waking world. In addition to the traditional figures like Saint Balyna and Saint Olava, the worship of Saint Martin and Saint Veloth were among the first to be recognized as being part of the Temple, but later other, sometimes more contradictory figures, followed - Saint Vekh, Saint Tiber, Saint Arctus, and many, many more.

*YgM: Sounds so pretty when you put it this way, but I just can't shake the feeling how easy it is to bring each and every religion under the heel. 'All the gods and spirits you worship are obviously Saints, now bow to our superior and all-encompassing doctrine'.*

The current Primate, [[S'Teifi-ko af-Bani]], is unique among the hierarchs to not receive a formal education in any of the lesser temples of Mara. She rather comes from the oral tradition of the [[Mother-Navigators]] of the western plains. It didn't prevent her from emerging victorious in the debate, and her weekly sermons are one of the main attractions for the visiting pilgrims.