*Located in the savanna of the southwestern Iliac Bay, Kairou is a minor city of the League in economic terms, relying on the trade of sorghum and legumes grown in the region, but it is also a prime example of the variety found in decentralized Iliac religion. The famous Chil'a holiday on the 24th of Evening Star sees the High Priest of Zeht concentrating the ashes of the Old Year's sacrificed crops and praying for the rebirth of the New Year. For in this land, Zeht is not only an agricultural deity, but also the God of Death and Rebirth.*

*The unique mythology of Kairoun divinity starts similarly enough to other Redguard cultures, with Sep creating the world and Zeht forsaking his father to provide life to the people of this world. From there, the story shifts radically. Kairou has demonized the traditional Life-Death deity, Arkay. Sometimes he is depicted as the Thieving Jackal, a faithful hound of Tall Papa who hunts for wayward souls and drags them to the underworld to be punished with Sep. His other avatar is the Rotted Ghoul, who haunts burial grounds devouring minds and spirits. Regardless, he is the one who killed Zeht for the farm deity’s rebellion against Tall Papa.*

*As Zeht lingers in the underworld, the land grows barren and dry. Morwha has mercy on her son, however, and so alongside Tava (Zeht’s sister, in these tales) undertakes a spiritual ritual which briefly revives Zeht from the dead. The endless cycle begins, as Zeht reigns briefly on the mortal realm during rainy seasons before descending back to the underworld during dry seasons, for one who has tasted the underworld can never leave it forever.*

*Reincarnation is thus central to Karioun spirituality, and they have little interest in the Far Shores. Like many Redguards they mummify their dead and inter them in ancient necropolises such as the nearby Crypts of V’ild. The people of Kairou also believe in their own variation of the tripartite soul. While the* breath *is taken back by Tava, and the* mind *resides forever in the necropolis, the* spirit *will be reborn in a new body so long as it is not captured by the Jackal or the Ghoul. For these reasons Kairouns often make pilgrimages to pray to the departed and offer gifts, lest the minds go mad and become wandering phantoms.*

*The origins for this peculiarity in tradition is debated. Some argue it is a holdover from some forgotten Nedic mythology adopted by the invading Redguards, others suggest it is evidence that the anti-Sep bias of most Redguards was not always so universal (a claim seemingly supported by the Sep cults of the Yokedate deserts). Regardless, it is no secret that the local clergy are not on good terms with the Arkayn temples found in the rest of the Bay.*

*\_\_\_\_\_\_*

*Kairou has always resented Sentinel’s domination of the Iliac Bay. And Sentinel’s patron deity is Arkay. Or Tu’whacca, or whatever they call him. Makes sense to me that they'd call the leaders of Sentinel a bunch of thieving jackals.*