*The city of Marandus surrounds Lake Nabia in southern Vvardenfell, and is the principal capital of the nascent Urshilaku nation. Down the southwestern road from the docks rests the ancient Chimer stronghold from which the settlement derives its name, built in “responsible architecture” that has withstood the passing of Empires and the rumblings of Red Mountain. In the center of the stronghold resides the Askhan of the Urshilaku, a title which is all but synonymous with Gah-Khan of the Great Tribes. Representatives from smaller tribes and clans flock to the doors, waiting and at times begging for an audience with the Great Chief of Chiefs of Resdayn.*

*On the western shores are the markets and residences, most made from adobe, which passes for “ostentatious” among the tribal Velothi. The poorer, or simply more conservative, Ashlanders live in guarhide tents further out from the lake. To the north lie farms of wickwheat and ash yams. Despite its age it is a humble and rustic place, favored by Dunmeri travelers looking to get away from the modern world and rediscover their ancestral past.*

*The true value of Marandus lies not in the city itself, of course, but in its location. Lake Nabia is the first great body of water near Red Mountain, and following the river southward one will drain into the Inner Sea. Ores collected from the north are brought here to be shipped to Suran, and from there all over the Star-Wounded East. It is partially through their control of Nabia that the Urshilaku remain relevant in Resayn’s economy. The gulakhans and warriors know this well, making regular patrols of the lake and the river alike. Banditry is common, though dealt with swiftly.*

*Unlike their more thin-skinned kin, the Urshilaku have come to expect the presence of outlanders, especially following the alliance with the Redoran Hortator. You need not guard your every word for fear of giving offense, but the requisite “gift” is still expected to speak with important figures, such as gulakhans or farseers.* 

*—*

*I once had the misfortune of listening to some lesser Sadras noble in a tavern in Suran whining about how Marandus was claimed by his ancestor 400-some years ago, that the Urshilaku “stole” it after the Red Year, and that they shouldn't have to pay gifts to the "guar-lovers" to get shipments from Nabia when the Sadras could make the docks so much more efficient. And he just wouldn’t shut up, rambling on and on, until a tribesmer made him shut up. With her fists.*