The city of Satakalaam stands out among other Iliac League cities in a lot of ways. For one, it is one of the few cities that are situated so far inland they do not have a port or a harbor.

More importantly, it is much different from the other cities of the south of the Bay in what concerns culture and customs. In the old Hammerfell it would be characterized as being of the 'Crown' persuasion. The local knightly families trace their descent from Na-Totambu nobility and gentry, not from the Ra-Gada warriors. Those who don't belong to the Na Shira most often have relatives in the nomad clans of Alik'r desert. Marketplaces of Satakalaam is where you may hear actually contemporary spoken Yoku in all it's imperfections - not the carefully constructed language they employ on Stros M'Kai.

The very obvious sign of difference is a huge ancient temple of Satakal that presides over the city. Inside, it is full of carefully restored mosaics depicting the scenes of the traditional Yokudan theology - the world serpent eating itself, Ruptga placing the stars on the sky, Tu'whacca guiding the spirits, Ruptga's victory over Sep. One of the mosaics is of obviously different make, and depicts an Imperial Julianos - the reminder of the dark times when the temple was forcibly converted to his worship. The next mosaic is even more different, and most recent, even if done in the ancient style - it shows Julianos in his aspect as an Owl, following Ruptga's stars.

If you ask the priests of the Temple, they will say that they follow and accept the spiritual primacy of the Southern Emperor (perhaps not the best term, but it's still the best short translation of his title of *the King of Kings, Heir of the Gods, Highest Priest, the Last Arbiter and the Keeper of the Sacred Blade*). Despite that, you will not see the laws of Totambu enforced in the city. And most emphatically, you will not find the military government of a Yokeda here.

For all their differences, big and small, Satakalaans are Iliacs to their core in the most important aspect - they are merchant-knights, as unwilling to accept any power above themselves as any other Iliac polity. Their trade may be not seaborne, but they are as important a hub as any port, as it is the final stop of the long caravan route going all the way from Dunei.

Satakalaam's military independence hinges on the last very important difference. We all know that Iliacs cling to the out-dated Galerion's paradigm of magic. For the knights, magic is a craft, not a science, so they prefer simplistic old and tried methods, instead of striving for the advancement. But where the knights of other cities practice in the fields of Destruction and Alteration - most fitting for the immediate application on the battlefield - Satakalaans prefer Illusion.

That is the origin of the second name of the city, 'the Desert Mirage'. The squads of the knights patrol the desert around the city, throwing up the miraculous visions of the tall towers, blue roofs, glittering fountains and lush greenery - far exceeding the actual city in beauty, I must say. Only when guided by another Satakalaan knight (or, the rumor says, one of the Mother Navigators) is the caravan able to find the real city safely. This clever usage of magic helped the city to keep its peace, and its trade safe in the face of the dangerous neighbors it has - the Bjoulsae, the Reachmen and even the Totambu border raids.