*The mystery of the disappearance of the snow whales was, if local accounts are to be believed, resolved by the inhabitants of a small Nord village of [[Cragwallow]] in the third year of the Silver Plague. One evening, the tale goes, a local drunk had heard a mournful whale cry, and rushed to his neighbors with a story of a flying whale passing over the village. His words were dismissed initially, as the village was situated hundreds of leagues inland, until the cries became too loud to ignore. Remembering the old tales, the villagers organized a sky hunt, launching crude harpoons and barbed arrows upwards, until they managed to anchor the flying body to the ground with enough ropes. What the villagers discovered upon climbing up - at least so the story goes - was a dying snow whale, most likely the last of its kind. And together with it they discovered an explanation to the age-long mystery, for as the whale died, its body got only lighter, staining the ropes to fly up, to the Aetherius.*

*The indisputable fact remains that the city of [[New Tsun’s Bridge]] is spread over the numerous platforms that are all affixed to a single massive shape high. Whether it really is a living corpse of a legendary snow whale, or something more mundane - like a celestial rock of the same nature as Baar Dau - is unknown to the Geographic Society. None of the members of it have yet managed to acquire an access to the highest levels of the city.*

*The city of Tsunbridge, as everyone but the locals call it, has become a center of both trade and religious pilgrimage over the passing centuries. Although the secret of sustained flight is not yet discovered by the Nords, the boats launched from the high platforms are able to drift, slowly but safely, all the way to the Sea of Ghosts and to the biggest lakes of the region - Ilinata, Yorgrim and Hornrich. In the fair weather, the boats are even able to make a passage over the mountains to the Lake Rumare.*

*Even so, the outgoing trade by itself doesn’t account for the wealth of the city, and the goods coming from it often have a peculiar look, reminding not of Nord craftsmanship, but of Orcish and, of all things, Ayleid artifacts. So it is obvious that the city has trading partners that are able to make landings in its upper skyports.*

*As for the religious fame that Tsunbridge claims, it brings a great deal of contradiction with it, since the city is a home of a splinter mystery cult of Tsun. Opposing to the traditional Nord wisdom, the priests of the city claim that the Sovngarde is but a step on the way, fashioned by the shadow of Shor to hold the spirits heroic, but also most attached to their unfinished business on Nirn. Unsurprisingly, this theology had attracted the believers of less warlike temperament, who grew enchanted by the idea of bypassing Sovngarde. Thus, the city receives a constant stream of dead bodies, prepared for the ‘sky burial’ - a secretive practice of Tsun’s priests that is performed at the highest levels of the city, - and of the pilgrims, relatives and mourners, who arrive to say their final goodbyes through, what this member of the Geographic Society assumes is some sort of Nord analogue of a Waiting Door.*
