Before you even arrive at Dibellum’s Port, you may notice the remains of wrecked ships from the great Battle fought with corsairs for the fate of this very island. Now these ruined vessels are maintained along the craggy shores and adorned with religious iconography. Every 5th of First Seed a Battlemaster bedecked in onyx robes performs the Rite of Sacred Remembrance to remind folk that the title is that of priesthood, not merely an elite warrior. Unlike in other parts of Freehold society, Republic Day is a solemn affair here; during the Rite the known names of everyone who died valiantly in the Battle on both sides are invoked - because War is sacred in Ebonarm theology, and even the enemy must be honored as a partaker in the sacred struggle. 

Further into the city, the array of sacred spaces continues. The Temple of Dibella is most interesting: renovated from Reman-era ruins, the crystalline architecture and especially the pointed ears of the Goddess would likely horrify certain members of that ancient regime. The Passion Dancer is depicted here as the “Beautiful Wind”, a nymph-like being with the Kynaren Dove sitting atop her shoulder. Meanwhile, a sphinx-shrine of Khenarthi can be found guarding the local catacombs, and Auridon Paladins pray at the Temple of Phynaster filled with reflective copper statuary. Coral totems of Satakaal can be found on every street corner, cast in the Pyandonean style. Outside the city, a sacred grove surrounded by stone-crafted pelican and sea turtle icons emphasizes the sky-and-sea aspect of Jephre which has become more prominent among the Freehold Bosmer.

In the tavern corners, hidden tunnels, and dark alleys, prayers are breathed out in secret to the darker spirits: Nocturnal, Boethiah, and most hated by all Freehold loyalists this close to the South, Baan Dar. The memory of the corsairs is obviously still fresh in the mind of [[Port Dibellum]]’s citizenry, and most respectable folk look with disdain upon any who seem to flirt with the spirit of piratical defiance. Suffice it to say that visitors to the city of Port Dibellum should be careful not to show too much public affection for these rebellious spirits, to avoid incident.