For those who peruse ancient maps or secluded mages and elves, the existence of the [[Aalto]] as an independent hold may come as a surprise. Historically, the region has been part of [[Eastmarch]] - in truth, _most_ of Eastmarch was what is today the Aalto.

As with all three of Snow-Throat’s “new holds” - [[Giant’s Gap]], the Aalto, and [[Ilinalta]] Hold - the separation of old and new has its roots in the Civil War of the late 4e190s and early 4e200s. As with much of eastern Skyrim, Eastmarch hold had undergone an economic regression from productive economy to an extractive model, allegedly as a result of a planned Imperial economic shift to replace lost sources of raw materials from Resdayn. While the hold capital of [[Windhelm]] remained largely untouched by this shift - indeed, the increase in exports seems to have buoyed the fortunes of the city - the rest of the hold struggled under the new economic regime. Unrest stemming from economic malaise, though drowned out by religious fervor and general anti-Empire sentiment, in turn fueled the Stormcloak Rebellion, with the prospect of a return to a productive economy rousing general support and disaffected subjects providing a large pool of recruits for the rebel army.

The hopes of eastern Skyrim to regain their lost economy were dashed by the Dragon Crisis and ensuing truce between the Stormcloaks and Imperial representatives. As the civil war petered out, the wartime demand for both raw materials and finished goods shrank, and the economic malaise returned tenfold. Dissatisfied with the inability - if not _unwillingness_ - of the Stormcloak leadership to address the problems faced by their supporters, the southern regions of Eastmarch began a slow divorce from the capital, something only accelerated by the death of Talos in the [[Tibedetha Incident]] and collapse of Stormcloak unity in the months and years following. By the time the Plague arrived in Skyrim, the Aalto had left Eastmarch in all but name. In place of a single unified government, a cult of Kyne had taken hold, serving to connect the disparate towns, forts, and camps, priestesses and hunters walking the wilds and steaming crags to hold court with giants and orcs in the wastes of the caldera.

Today, the simplest definition of the Aalto’s boundaries is that the Aalto begins where other holds end. The White River marks most of the border between Eastmarch and the Aalto, with the Velothi mountains in the east separating Resdayn and Snow-Throat. In the south, Ysgramor’s Teeth divide the Rift from the Aalto, and in the west, Whiterun shares a small border with the hold, along the Guldun River.

Most permanent settlements in the Aalto are clustered along the rivers or situated in a great ring around the caldera, beads of towns and towers strung out on a necklace of roads, camps, and rivers.

[[Kynesgrove]], the capital, is one of the northernmost major settlements in the hold, a sprawling town that sits on the White River. Named for the sacred grove of Kyne it is built near, the town is nonetheless a major stop on the river for the logging and shipbuilding trade, as well as the most common point of export for the hold’s crops of jazbay, dragon’s tongue, and genuine alto wine, a revered delicacy only able to be brewed with grapes grown in the caldera. Kynesgrove is also the most convenient route to the Orsimer stronghold of [[Narzulbur]], one of Snow-Throat’s most prominent Orcish communities and a major supplier of the nation’s ebony, alongside the imports from Resdayn’s [[Raven Rock]] mines.

The Grove at Kynesgrove is the seat of the hold’s jarl. Unusually among the jarls of the Commonwealth, the executive head of the Aalto is not elected - rather, she - for the jarl is always a woman - is appointed, with the position being granted to the most senior priestess of Kyne in the hold.

Traveling south along the White will bring one into contact with the many fishing and crabbing settlements on the Aalto bank of the river. Woodcutting and logging industries are largely absent on the Aalto bank due to a notable lack of trees, though many of the locks that have been built along the White are constructed on the Aalto side, servicing the multitude of river boats, grain barges, and log runners that ply the waters.

The Darkwater and Guldun Rivers that feed the White have some of the hold’s largest communities and amounts of arable land. Ecologically more similar to Eastmarch’s southern lands, the town of [[Fort Amol]] is sometimes referred to as the hold’s southern capital, and the largest farming and logging town in the hold. [[Darkwater Crossing]], a mining community further upstream, is a major supplier of corundum for Snow-Throat’s forges and manufactories.

The most notable locations in the Aalto’s south, however, are the mead hall of the [[Silver Companions]] and the [[Eldergleam Sanctuary]], a nearby holy site of Kyne under the protection of the storied warrior band. The Silver Companions were granted land in the Aalto in the late years of the 4e200s, after the Battle of the Shore, when an invasion of Falmer was driven back underground in large part due to the heroic actions of the then-homeless Silver Companions, under the leadership of Harbinger Orgnar of the Axe. The Silver Companions have built a veritable town and port on the bank of the Darkwater, replete with a personal fleet of ships and training ground for the myriad of would-be warriors and shield-brothers and sisters.

The interior of the Aalto is sparsely settled. The vast caldera is a wild land, populated by hermits, mystics, hunters and wanderers, living among the crags and steam, moving from hidden altar to hidden altar, camping at long-lost standing stones. Poorly suited for conventional agriculture, jazbay plantations nonetheless can be found among the sulfur springs, tended by nomadic botanists and vintners. Rumors claim that the center of the caldera is home to a monastery of Dragon Monks, a claim that remains difficult to verify.

The Aalto is one of Snow-Throat’s strangest holds, distinct in government, ecology, and traditions. Nonetheless, the hold may be an attractive destination for merchants: ebony from Narzulbur, rare herbs, ingredients, and wines may all be found here, cheaper than elsewhere in Tamriel. For the religiously minded, the hold contains pilgrimage sites aplenty: the sacred Grove of Kyne at Kynesgrove, a dragon mound sacred to the hero-god Ysmir Alduin, the ancient Eldergleam Sanctuary, hidden altars and standing stones that one would need a guide to find. The Silver Companions offer a home for the wandering warrior, and may be hired to deal with threats mundane and magical for the proper fee - or to carry out expeditions and trade upon their fleet of longships.