Giant’s Gap is one of Snow-Throat’s three “New Holds”, alongside [[Ilinalta]] Hold and the [[Aalto]]. This northern hold is the smallest and most ill defined of all the Commonwealth’s holds, in no small part due to its tumultuous history.

What is today Giant’s Gap was once the central portion of the hold of the Pale, administered from the city of [[Dawnstar]]. During the waning years of the Mede Dynasty and the Empire, the Pale was headed by Jarl Skald Felgeif, known as [[Skald the Elder]]. Skald’s mismanagement of the Hold and repeated pogroms against the Giants (see [[Holds of Snow-Throat. The Jarldom of Dawnstar]]) slowly inculcated the secession of the southern portions of the Pale, culminating in a complete separation with Skald’s death in 4e203 and the effective end of the Pale as an administrative entity.

The official founding of Giant’s Gap as a hold would not come until after the founding of the Snow-Throat Commonwealth in the late 2e230s. The southern grain-producing towns and hill-forts had developed strong ties with the migratory herder-folk of the northern taiga and the Giantish clans of the mountains during the disorder of the Plague and Skyrim’s collapse, and were loath to join the neighboring holds of [[Winterhold]], [[Eastmarch]], or [[Whiterun]]. At one of the now-customary gatherings at [[Fort Dunstad]], representatives of the people of Giant’s Gap instead decided to found their own, separate, Hold, maintaining the independence they had so come to cherish.

_A depiction of one of the fairs at Fort Dunstad. The human attendees all walk on stilts to put them at eye-level with the giants. Also depicted is a stylized representation of a “Voice-Concert” of the Giantish tradition, in which the singers combine Shouts and music to tell stories and summon windstorms._

Today, Giant’s Gap is one of Snow-Throat’s frontier holds, sparsely populated and intensely rural. The hold has no defined northern or western borders, the near-trackless forests and mountains instead serving as barriers between Snow-Throat and the Jarldom of Dawnstar and Wrothgaria. In the northeast, the [[Tears of Saarthal]] mark the border with Winterhold, and the [[Yorgrim Valley]] of the East belongs to Eastmarch. To the south, the grain-towns of [[Heljarchen]] and [[Loreius]] on the plains of Whiterun demarcate the southern boundaries of the hold, and protect the few roads that venture deep into the north.

_Sketches of settlements and nomads. The southern grain-towns are shown to be hill-forts, ringed with high stone walls and gates tall enough for giants to walk through comfortably. Giantish towns in the mountains are built of rough-hewn stone, richly decorated in hides and carvings. Camps of nomadic mammoth and reindeer herders greatly resemble traditional giant camps._

Giant’s Gap is the most Giant-influenced of Snow-Throat’s holds. At least half if not more of the population is of Giantish persuasion, and at each year’s Great Moot a majority of the representatives (zul, speakers) of the Hold are Giants. The position of the hold’s Jarl, simultaneously the highest ranked militia officer of the hold, has more often than not been held by a giant, and many of the Mammoth Merchants seen across the North claim Giant’s Gap as their true home.

_A sketch of inhabitants of Giant’s Gap. Notably, giantish tattoos and scarification are widespread among the human inhabitants of the hold as well as the giants._

Despite its small size and remoteness, Giant’s Gap has proven to be an important and contentious member of Snow-Throat. The Jarldom of Dawnstar has long advocated for the dissolution of the hold and return of what it views as its rightful territories, a claim that has been stonewalled by the people of Giant’s Gap. In return, Giant’s Gap has often refused to lend military aid to Dawnstar even in the face of Sea Giant and Falmer attacks, only reluctantly bending to pressure from the Great Moot. Ruins in the mountains have become home to cults and bandit tribes, and Falmer raids have become increasingly common, requiring the posting of militias from elsewhere in Snow-Throat to reinforce those of Giant’s Gap.

For traders and merchants, Giant’s Gap is perhaps the least accessible hold of Snow-Throat and has the fewest business opportunities, save for exchanges of art, food, drink, and cultural goods. For the intrepid travellers curious and daring enough to make the trek, however, Giant’s Gap is home to a blend of culture unlike anywhere else in Tamriel, and well worth the trip.