_The name of [[Eastmarch]] Hold is something of a misnomer - since the secession of the [[Aalto]] and the reorganization of eastern Skyrim into the [[Snow-Throat Commonwealth]], Eastmarch no longer commands most of the eastern marches, nor is it eastern - in truth, the hold is one of the Commonwealth’s central holds._

_Much of the lands that now make up Eastmarch were once part of the defunct hold of the Pale, now split between Eastmarch, [[Giant’s Gap]], and the Jarldom of [[Dawnstar]]. The western frontier of Eastmarch consists of the east-west valley in which [[Lake Yorgrim]] lies - a land sparsely settled. Much of the land is taiga, marching up the mountain slopes until the trees give way to snowberry bushes and bare rock. Hidden among the crags on both the north and south slopes of the valley are ancient Dwemer ruins and Nordic tombs - both forbidding prospects for the unwary wanderer. More welcoming might be the monasteries of the Dragon Monks - if they can be found._

_Lake Yorgrim and the surrounding communities are the headwaters of Eastmarch’s most prominent industry. It is said that almost no life in Eastmarch is untouched by the rivers and ocean, something that rings true even here. Logging camps in the forest deliver lumber to the lake to be floated downstream to the sawmills and shipyards that cluster the banks of the Yorgrim River. Most of Snow-Throat’s ships are built here, clinker-built hulls and shallow drafts perfectly suited for both the icy waters of the Sea of Ghosts and the rivers of Skyrim alike._

_South of the Uttering Hills runs the White River. Eastmarch claims the north bank, but this stretch, though more temperate than the rest of the hold, has few permanent inhabitants. Giant clans make camp in the forests alongside intrepid woodcutters, but the dark history of shipburnings during the Silver Plague has kept most settlers away. The town of [[Mixwater Mill]] is the largest settlement on the Eastmarch side between the militia fort of [[Morvunskar]] and Whiterun’s portaging station of [[Valthiem Towers]], makes good business more in serving and servicing the riverboats that ply the White and Darkwater than it does in milling logs and grain._

*[[Windhelm]] and Slaughterfish Bay are the heart of Eastmarch. Once the City of Kings, Windhelm is now the City of Skalds: the seat of Dibella’s priesthood in Snow-Throat. Credited with saving the city during the Silver Plague, the priestesses - known as the [[Silver Moths]] - are patronesses of the arts in Windhelm. The Palace of Kings, their temple, is equal parts religious site and museum, preserving the past and present of Snow-Throat. The city itself has rebuilt since the Civil War and Plague two hundred years ago, during which the city itself was subject to severe deterioration. Much of the new construction is done in the neo-Atmoran style that has become popular across Snow-Throat and Wrothgaria: structures built of massive blocks of stone, monoliths lifted into place with magic, pulleys and lines and set without mortar, then carved with intricate bas-reliefs. Snake emblems are particularly popular in Windhelm, a fad not commonly shared by the rest of the nation. The Hall of the Moot is perhaps the best example of this neo-Atmoran style: constructed at a massive scale to allow giants to attend, the Hall resembles a massive longhouse, or perhaps a ribcage, at the conflux of the White and Yorgrim rivers.*

_Ouada Isra - River Row - is the Dunmer district of Windhelm, and one of the closest to the docks. The largest single Dunmer community in Snow-Throat, Ouada Isra’s oldest denizens are among the first members of the Dunmer diaspora. Younger Dunmer are later immigrants to Snow-Throat, alongside an increasing native-born population, as well as transient traders and merchants from [[Resdayn]]. Few of Ouada Isra’s citizens still hold to their House identities - particularly ex-Hlaalu Dunmer._

_Windhelm’s port and the White River estuary are Snow-Throat’s primary gateway to the rest of Tamriel. The mouth of the river remains, if not free of, then mostly clear of ice year-round - ice-breakers and sweeper ships diligently clearing paths through the winter months. Most traffic in the port comes from Resdayn, grain barges and cargo ships ferrying much needed foodstuffs from Snow-Throat to Resdayni cities. Wheats, ryes, and potatoes from the Commonwealth have found their way into Dunmeri cuisine, making up for Resdayn’s own lack of arable land. Relatively little of what Resdayn buys in Windhelm comes from Eastmarch itself, instead being shipped downriver from Whiterun. Windhelm’s own farms tolerate the cool climate passably well. Summer snows, a rarity in ancient times, have become increasingly common, as squalls from the Sea of Ghosts deposit thin coatings of snow along the coast. Counterintuitively, many farmers claim that these brief bursts of snow aid their crops, a “poor man’s fertilizer” in addition to the fertilizers bought from Winterhold._

_Windhelm’s port also calls itself home to Snow-Throat’s navy - or what passes for a navy. As with the land-bound militias, the nation’s navy is little more than legalized, commissioned pirates and privateers. While notionally bound to a command structure, each ship is responsible for recruiting its own crew, electing officers referred to as “sea-thanes”, and finding patrons for their ships. The Silver Moths sponsor many ships, even those with bawdy names - Dibella’s Hips, to speak of the most tasteful one. In their free time, many of these privateers double as merchants or adventuring vessels, sailing the sea-lanes along the coast, to Solstheim, Resdayn, and even Atmora._

_Eastmarch Hold is Snow-Throat’s gateway to the rest of Tamriel by sea, and Tamriel’s seaborne gateway to Snow-Throat. For those bold sea-traders travelling west, Windhelm is the second-to-last major port of call and safest anchor, only rarely seeing sea-giant raids and sheltered from storms that wrack the Sea of Ghosts. Trading opportunities here are perhaps the best that can be found west of Resdayn and east of the Iliac League, cargoes of clockwork agricultural contraptions, Dwemer artifacts, Nordic chocolate confections, Giantish carvings, Orcish metalworks, alchemical concoctions, and more, all for sale in the markets. For those determined to enter Snow-Throat, be it for business, settlement, or adventure, Eastmarch’s rivers provide easy access to the interior, for those willing to buy passage on a river boat, and the roads that snake alongside them provide harder access for those who do not._

--------------

*Editor’s note: while it much of the land is still physically referred to as “The Pale”, it is heavily advised to avoid referring to the hold as such. Doing so may invoke the ire of residents who resent the attempts of the Jarldom of Dawnstar to exert control over what it views as its rightful territory and subjects.*