Travelers braving the wilds of Craglorn may find themselves encountering a landmark not noted on their maps - a great salt lake to the northwest of [[Belkarth]]. The reason that this lake, named “[[Lake Malazar]]” by the locals, has not been described on maps before is simple: due to the salinity of the water, it has never been considered an important location, as it cannot be used for drinking.

The lake’s north shore is claimed by [[Orsinium]], where travelers may find some form of hospitality. It is strongly recommended for those who may be in the area to seek shelter inside of Orsinium’s borders: the contested territory outside of the Orcish state is home to even less friendly nomads and horse-borne raiders. Once beyond the line demarcated by Orcish airships, seek out the nearest settlement, do not brandish arms, and bring payment or trade if possible.

This region of Orsinium appears to be primarily inhabited by two peoples: the Osh Ornim, or Iron Orcs, and the Mantikora, who refer to themselves as the “Nu-Folk”. Osh Ornim appear to be the more populous of the two, possessing settlements along the rivers that feed Lake Malazar and deeper “inland” from the lake to the Dragontails. The Nu-Folk, in contrast, have their habitations along, and in some cases, in, the lake itself. These great chimeric creatures seem perfectly suited to the salty waters of the lake, apparently being able to drink its waters with no harm, similar to species of reptiles observed in Topal Bay.

Trade with the Nu-Folk of the region may often yield peculiar and rare goods. Lake Malazar hosts an ecosystem unlike any other known in Tamriel, replete with species of stork-like insects, water skimmers, hexapodal salt-frogs, massive brine shrimp, and other, as-yet unnamed creatures, many of which are fished and hunted by the Nu-Folk with spears and tridents. Craglorn itself is home to a veritable menagerie of creatures hunted and herded by the Nu-Folk and Osh Ornim alike, for meat, hide, and alchemical ingredients: clawrunners, wild yaks, welwas, guzzards, wormmouths, dwarf mammoths, giant salamanders, wamasu, and small, shaggy goats, to mention a few. Alchemical ingredients derived from these animals will often fetch high prices elsewhere in Tamriel due to their relative scarcity, though merchants should be prepared to buy them at similarly high prices from Orsinium’s own sellers.

It is recommended that travelers through Orsinium’s territories make for [[Dragonstar]] as their next stop, avoiding [[Yokedate]]-claimed regions that see raids by Bjoulsae horsemen and seeking to return to relatively civilized areas as soon as possible.