*The Illuminated Museum of Aldmeri Sapience in Lillandril is once again open to the general public, so that, in the words of the Museum curators, “we may show others the brightest aspects of Ehlnofey culture in the hopes that they, too, may strive for a higher excellence in all aspects of Mundane life.” The Museum is dedicated to all the various “Children of Aldmeris,” i.e. the various Elven cultures of Tamriel.* 

*The Altmeri exhibition is, naturally, the grandest. Silvery ancient statues of adamantium depicting Torinaan the Foresailer, Phynaster the Guardian, and other Merethic-era cultural heroes line the walls. Bones of the extinct welwas and ilyadi are displayed as examples of the beasts conquered to make Altmeri society possible. Most popular is the Hall of Rulers displaying a long row of every monarch who ruled Alinor from Auri-El to the Thalmor, crafted with excruciating accuracy in glowing malondo stone. Observing the large crowds that throng to this particular attraction, one is struck by the revelation that Alinor's people still long for the firm but loving rule of ancient noble families despite their modern pretensions of “equality.”* 

*The final room of the Altmeri section of the Museum is a showing of modern art from across Alinor - hand-selected by the Sapiarchy, of course. A large mural by an artist from Belport depicts Syrabane driving away the Thrassian Fleet with a flick of the hand, while a culanda-sculpture from Alinor City depicts Anuiel smiling down on the College of Sapiarchs. The sole contribution from Rellenthil is the most controversial, only admitted after lengthy debate. It is a painting that depicts the final members of the old Thalmor regime cannibalizing each other in Alinor Palace. Not very suitable for the family-minded traveler.*  

*The Bosmer exhibition is more of a public menagerie containing flora and fauna imported from Malabal Tor. The artist responsible is quite proud of her seemingly miraculous feat in eco-engineering, even if Green wardens must be on constant standby to prevent the predatory animals from endangering visitors.* 

*The neighboring Ayleid exhibition is also grand in its own way, as the tall arches, pure white walls, and graceful columns immediately transport visitors to one of the ancient cities of the Saliache. Lit only by welkynd stones, scenes unfold in sculpture and bas-relief of the Ayleid Empire’s rise in the Heartland, corruption by the Daedra, and ultimate collapse by their own hubris in relying on slave labor. The revivalists of modern times are also given a nod of recognition at the end, a diorama of Miscarcand being rebuilt by Bosmeri and Khajiiti laborers is the final focal piece.* 

*The Dunmer section opens in an elaborate chamber of wall-sculptures depicting the early Chimer casting off their calians and kneeling before the Three Good Daedra. The center of the chamber is a green-glass statuary scene of Veloth meditating below the Crystal Tower, Boethiah whispering into his ear. In the next rooms house artworks from the Potentate and Resdayn: Ashlander bone jewelry, carapace carvings in the Native Chuzei style, and a topiary of the Empress Katariah adorned with black roses.* 

*The cold chamber that is the Falmer exhibition contains ice sculptures of the Aedra weeping (with self-regenerating enchanted tears) as they watch arcano-projections of the great Snow Elves battling hairy barbarians wearing Dragon-totem necklaces. The faithful reenactment of the fall of the Snow Prince is quite a hit with military enthusiasts.* 

*A small Dwemer exhibition is the humblest room of the Museum, Alinor not having much access to the artifacts of that vanished race. The usual coherers and puzzle cubes are on display, but the star of the show is a small duplicate of Numidium. Beloved by children, this tiny automaton was to blame for the Museum being closed for a time. Little Numidium (as the locals call it), used to walk about on a map of Tamriel on the floor. This feature had chronopathic side effects on those who gazed at it for too long, thus it was disabled. While the Museum of Aldmeri Sapience does not feature a gift shop, parents may be delighted to know that one of our sponsors, the Saint Kagrenac Corporation, sells working (and completely safe!\*) Little Numidiums at reasonable prices by mail or at one of their shops near you.* **If Dwemer imitations you lack, go see Saint Kagrenac!**

*The other small exhibits are a room of coral serpent totems from the Maormer, a room of ancient Trinimac votives from Wrothgaria, and (somewhat controversially, given their debated heritage,) banners of the Goblin Welkynars from King’s Haven.* 

*One more exhibition, simply titled “The Future,” features arcane projections of the Sunbirds of Alinor flying across the Aurbis to explore and study the Eight Planets. Project God-Reaching, as it has been called, is the passionate undertaking of a handful of Sapiarchs hoping to prove at last the “true” nature of the Divines. The program is still in the early stages, but interest has grown significantly in recent years.* 

^(\*The Saint Kagrenac Corporation is not legally liable for any lost memories, lost sense of time, visions of the future, visions of the past, visions of alternate timelines, or existential crises that may result from exposure to Dwemer reproductions.)