*The New Ayleid city of [[Old Silvenar]], nestled on the banks of the Xylo River in the central Malabal Tor, is the political center of the Imperium. The city is an eclectic arrangement of Greenist treepod-houses wrapped around rising spires of Ayleid marble and Dawnway crystal. The Revivalists love to build vertically, a physical manifestation of their fixation on all things Heavenly, and this place is no exception.* 

*The ground level, “Dirt Town” as the locals call it, is the dwelling of the craftsfolk, artisans, and petite-merchants of the Imperium; “plebeians” in the terminology of their overly formalized hierarchy. An East Empire Company office building can be found on the docks on the east side, near where you will likely arrive.* ***Just across the street is the Xylo River Café, one of our sponsors, offering esteemed authentic Bosmeri delicacies such as jagga tarts, blood pudding, and the finest civet coffee in all of the Sacred Wood!*** *On the west side of the city are the marble halls of the Silvenar Arena, a grand source of entertainment for people across Tamriel. The children love to watch the timber mammoths perform, though the gamblers come for the flying jousts and chariot races. Both the Green and the Silver teams are funded by wealthy patrons in the Imperium, with successful hippogriff-riders hoping it may be their chance to gain sponsorship and advance the social hierarchy*.*^(1)*

*“Green Town” is the next level up, where the aforementioned traditional treepod houses share space with Ayleid apartments of mirror and marble. The people here mostly belong to the Questing Knights, though some uplifted Plebeians and various servants also walk the amber streets. Flaunting wealth from their latest ventures is a favorite pastime for Ayleid Knights, perhaps something they learned from their Colovian neighbors, and they import fine silks from Resdayn and culanda-jewelry from Auridon in an unending pursuit to outdo each other**^(2)**. The center of this district is the local forum, where the lower citizens meet to discuss philosophy and cast votes on purely local affairs for the city.* 

*“Sky Town” is the highest part of Silvenar, where the Temple of El-Adamath sits at the nexus of the many strings of amber and crystal persuaded to sing the color of the Stars. In the surrounding plaza shining marble manors house delegates representing each of the* Adoni Welai \*(“Heavenly Lords”), *as well as numerous Chaplains from across Sunnamora. They discuss, under the Light of the Magna-Ge, the affairs that affect the whole of the Imperium, and receive ambassadors from across Tamriel. Yes, even an embassy from our own Elder Council has a spot in this majestic assembly. We are working tirelessly to advocate for greater democracy and human rights in this young nation, and hope increased trade with Nibenay may encourage such ideals*.*^(3)*

*Finally, below the earth is “Root Town,” a series of tunnels branching out from below the eponymous graht-oak located on the southern outskirts of the city. Here the mortal Silvenar lives among the lowest poor and the Green Pact purists. He occasionally makes the trip upwards, to inform the Adoni and the Chaplains’ delegates the will of the people, and remind them of the Way of the Green. The Old Silvenar’s warnings apparently fall on deaf ears, if some are to be believed. In the Adoni’s defense, this Silvenar's legitimacy has long been in question: there has not been a handfasting ceremony since before the Bloodtoil Uprising, and the current title holder refuses to perform one on account of the current Green Lady’s alleged transgressions against the Green Pact. For millennia, that very ceremony was considered symbolic of the marriage between Bosmer and Green, proof of Y’ffre’s divine presence. Is it any wonder, then, that so many Bosmer have since been in search of a new spiritual identity? Nevertheless, the Silvenar’s influence is still nothing to be ignored, and the Green/Dawn divide could become a serious source of tension if cooler heads do not prevail*.*^(4)*

*…*

^(1)*The behind-the-scenes info about arena performers is less glamorous than the showboating would lead you to believe. They’re all bound by unfair contracts owned by their patrons, the main financiers of the Green and Silver teams. Even the equipment they train with and the animals they use are “rented” from their supposed benefactors. Actual “ascension by victory” is rare, that’s the truth of it. I feel bad for the poor saps being strung along, making money for their mage-overlords by entertaining the masses while barely seeing any of it themselves.*

^(2)*Doesn’t sound that different from the Kragenmoor Gala held by House Hlaalu every year.*

^(3)*More likely, working to prevent the Bank’s investment from going under. Didn’t the Thalmor leave this city a burning hole in the ground? How is this “majesty” even possible financially? Magic or not, these Ayleids have to be running up a big debt; and I want to know what the moneybags in Stirk and the Elder Council hope to gain in return.*

^(4)*Enough of this bull. It’s not as if every conflict outside of our “oh-so-enlightened” Second Potentate is just religious in-fighting or ethnic tension. According to a Khajiiti Ayleid who had no dog in the race, the real problem is that Greenspeakers and Treethanes used to be leaders of these sorts of communities. Then the “New Ayleids” came along and now suddenly war-wizards and astrologers are the ones calling all the shots. It’s about power, not just religion.*