*Located on the southern shores of Hew’s Bane, the No Shira Citadel is the chief training complex of the sizable mercenary guild that is the Order of Ebonarm. Warriors from all over the West come to train here; some will become “Black Knight” sellswords in service to the at-Reymon Family, others will become dragonknights of Abah’s Blades, and some will become sword-singers of the Totambu Yokedate. All will have earned a ferocious reputation the ancient Citadel accrues them.*

*No Shira, built by Prince Hubalajad during the Tavan Wave, has changed leaders countless times since the First Era. By the time of the New Warrior Wave, it was under the control of an eccentric hybrid organization born from the alliance of dragon-hunting Blades and Thalmor-hunting Remnants. Abah’s Blades, as they were dubbed by their critics before they reclaimed the insult as a point of pride, were initially firm supporters of the Totambu Yokedate. Everywhere the Wave went, Citadels of Ebonarm were rebuilt or converted from Fighters Guild halls.*

*In time, the Citadels had become the most influential mercenary network in western Tamriel, and the Emperor wanted a share of this wealth. He declared Ebonarm a “false god” of Breton origins, using this claim to justify taxing the Citadels. The Grandmaster Hajar “at-Reymon” responded by seceding from the Old Kingdom, claiming Abah’s Landing, and forming an alliance with Firsthold. Craftily, she still paid tribute to the Elden Yokeda and accepted the presence of a symbolic Yokeda within the city. Thus a handful of Citadels in Yokedate territory where the Emperor's influence is not as strong were able to keep their doors open without paying hefty taxes to Hegathe.*

*Warriors training at the Citadels who do not swear service to a Yokeda or join the Abah’s Blades are eventually expected to begin their Walkabout, which the at-Reymons interpret as an eternal quest of self-improvement. They take only contracts they believe align with their so-called “code of honor,” and at prices much higher than the Fighters Guild. So obsessive is their fixation with honor that their ranks are filled with reckless sellswords seeking a “glorious death” on the battlefield. The sword-singers lucky enough to survive into old age become Battlemasters, heads of their own Citadels, and are often adopted into the leadership of the at-Reymon Family. While some may balk at the idea of “honorable” assassins and cutthroats, it should be remembered that the Citadels emphasize Ebonarm in his aspect as “the wandering Black Knight,” righting wrongs, destroying evil, and keeping the peace. They are therefore oddly similar to the Morag Tong in their self-justifying mythos as keepers of the peace preventing greater bloodshed.*

*The Sword-Saint shrines of No Shira Citadel are the most popular site in the region; visited by pilgrims from various faiths and backgrounds. The Yokudan shrines of Frandar Hunding, Divad the Singer, Makela Leki, and Gaiden Shinji. The Akaviri shrines of Renald the Skin-Changer, Sai Sahan, and Delphine the Serpent-Slayer. There is even a shrine to the Altmer warrior Torinaan the Foresailor. Many young initiates pray that one day their sword will join those of warriors past which hang on the sacred walls.*

*There is a dark undercurrent to the at-Reymon Family’s mercenary society. Part of the alliance between Firsthold and Abah’s Landing was a pact which made Abah’s Blades the black operations force of the Republic, performing secretive murders on Freehold’s enemies that are always dressed to look like accidents or convenient coincidences. Small villages are extorted, foreign caravans and merchants are butchered, political dissidents are made to “disappear.” Perhaps the legends of their honor should finally be put to rest.*

........

**Sailing around Tamriel means I've met warriors of all stripes. Redoran watchmer, Orc berserkers, Nord militia, Breton knights, Nibenese Battlemages; they all talk about “honorable deaths,” especially the younger ones drunk on old war stories or the old-timers looking for a legacy to leave behind. They all claim some righteous code of honor to justify what they do, but your average grunt doesn't obsess over it. These Ebonarm mercs aren't special in that way. They \*are\* expensive, from what I hear, but I’d hope that translates into better pay than what the Fighters Guild offers these days.**