Under the ground of the Reach exists a vast network of caves and tunnels, expanding into Skyrim and Rivenspire known simply as "Blackreach". These dark and gloomy caves are inhabited by the degenerate descendants of the Snow Elves, of the Merethic Era. The Falmer, as they are still known, sought refuge from the Atmoran conquest of their homeland among their Dwemer cousins, who only welcomed them to turn on them, enslave them and, through dark sorcery, permanently alter their form into that of blind, hunched goblin-like parodies of Elvenkind.

The Falmer have survived the Disappearance of the Dwarves and formed their own savage tribal society far away from Tamriel's surface, where they have somehow managed to tame the giant insects known as chauruses on which they rely for food and material. It is rumored they have abandonned the worship of traditionnal Aldmeri deities in favor of darker gods, more fit to their environment. Second Era legends of  a "Heart of Shadow" and its undying guardian hidden under the Reach may be related.

While they had been content to remain in the dark for millenia, the Fourth Era has seen Falmer send ever-more frequent hunting parties to the surface, aducting or murdering any they come across. As such the Skyrim Commonwealth has put in place a policy of systemic collapse of any tunnel leading into Blackreach. The Kingdom of Greater Wrothgar and the Karth, by contrast, has decided to exploit the mineral resources of Blackreach, opting to simply exterminate any Falmer camp they come across in their exploration. Finally the Druadach Kingdom is rumored to have managed to create diplomatic relations with several tribes thanks to Hagraven covens being able to somehow communicate with Falmeri shamans.