Everybody who is familiar with the history of [[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]] knows that the old cities there didn't preserve their political and economic importance. Re-opening of the trade routes allows them to support a higher than usual population of craftsmen, artisans and artists, but barring few of them, most are still indistinguishable from villages. Old buildings either lie in ruins, or are disassembled for materials, most of the inhabitants are busy with agriculture, and those few Qarls the local Baron can feed are patrolling the countryside.

A colorful exception to this rule is the city of [[Rorikstead]]. The family that holds it, gro-Bleds traces their decent from a distinguished Orcish Tribune from the Falkreath Legion. Over the course of the generations, they managed to employ the fortunate position on the [[Legion Road]] to build a city that rivals [[Solitude]] itself, and surpasses even [[Falkreath]]. Sturdy mortared houses, different from wattle-and-daub or dry-stacked neo-Atmoran ones elsewhere in the province, tall walls, and even a castle-palace that dominates one side of the city marketplace - all of it looks definitively modern. On the other side of the marketplace towers the Temple of Zenithar, courtesy of the [[Tamrielic Bank of Z’en]]. The Temple has a complicated relationship with the [[Archbishopric of Solitude]], but its majesty and opulence attracts the flock that doesn't care much for the intricacies of theology.

Outside of the city, vast fields grow cash crops that are so in demand among the southern alchemists, and the ever-growing city attracts craftsmen - and also warriors. Gro-Bleds can support a far bigger army than any other noble of Wrothgaria, and they have crafily used their economic and military strength to reinforce each other - loaning money and arms to the other Thane-barons, but also riding to their aid directly. As a result, most of the surrounding nobles owe them in one way or another, giving lie to their direct oath of vassalage to [[Solitude]]. 

Such magnates are not an uncommon occurrence in Wrothgaria - Mallories of [[Shornhelm]], Thirtysticks of [[Farrun]], gro-Khazgurs of [[Mor Khazgur]], to name a few - but gro-Bleds are by far the strongest. Their troops under the gold-horned goat banner, and the troops of their clients, have become synonymous with the safety and peace on the [[Legion Road]], much to the chagrin of Skulnarssons of [[Falkreath]].

The current Thane-baron, curiously named [[Rorik gro-Bled]], doesn't hide his desire for a higher rank of an Earl - a privilege now mostly ceremonial, and reserved for honorable but impoverished old nobility like Tamriths or Ravencrones. Only time will tell whether this ambitious family will make Solitude formally admit their influence.

*YgM: While I'm not averse to cheering other Orcs when they do well in life, gro-Bleds are definitely slimy.*