*The key traits of the God of Time are said to be Endurance, Invincibility, and Everlasting Legitimacy. This holds true whether he be venerated as Auri-El or Akatosh. His grand cathedral in [[Kvatch]] is seemingly the embodiment of those qualities, with a foundation that has lasted since the days of the Alessian Order, and walls that miraculously endured the Daedric sacking of the Oblivion Crisis. The High Chapel of Kvatch is still considered one of the holiest pilgrimage destinations by most followers of the Great Dragon, especially as it is the adopted home of Saint Martin the Martyr. However, the interior of the High Chapel divulges a more complicated picture of internal church politics. The old altar to Talos has been re-consecrated to Magnus, and vines have grown along the walls and statuary.*

*After the coup which placed the Ayleid Revivalists in power over Kvatch, the Primate of Akatosh was made a “Chaplain” in the Imperium hierarchy. An awkward tightrope-walk ensued, as the Primates continued to insist they were the true heirs of the old Imperial Church, unlike the monotheistic “heretics” of Cyrodiil City, but also begrudgingly acknowledging the supremacy of the Adoni as Defenders of the Faith (much like the Emperors of old). Their acceptance of Meridia worship, especially, has distanced them from the Council of the Eight and resulted in the present situation in which the Primate of Auri-El and the Archbishop of the One have mutually excommunicated one another. All of this may sound rather absurd to you, dear reader, because we in the tolerant lands of the Potentate are enlightened enough to respect varieties in doctrine. To the fractious children of the Colovian West, however, this on-going controversy remains a matter of dire import. So if you visit the High Chapel of Kvatch, say your prayers in whatever words you feel comfortable with, and then move along. Keep any opinions you may have about the clergy private.*