*To the east of Miscarcand lies the Great Shrine of Meridia, or Merid-Nunda if you ask an especially committed Revivalist. Pilgrims from across the Imperium of Sunnamora visit this sacred site daily, but especially on the 13th of Morningstar when the Red Star is most visible in the sky and the Lady of Light is said to be closest to Nirn in her aspect as Harbinger of Dawn. (Some modern astronomers take issue with this claim, but that is a debate for another time). There are two great prayers given on this day: the Morning Star Prayer is celebratory in tone, thanking the Light for banishing darkness. It is considered symbolic of the Dawn of Creation, when Magnus and his children shed some of the Light of Aetherius down upon Nirn. The Evening Star Prayer is solemn and mournful, commemorating the Harrowing of Oblivion by Merid-Nunda. It is claimed that she took pity on the wayward souls lost to chaotic Darkness, and so fell into Oblivion to create the Colored Rooms, a haven of Light in Darkness, saving these souls and adding them to a Collection of the Lustrous.* 

*This descent narrative is central to Revivalist theology, wherein it is understood that many Gods sacrificed themselves by “descending” to Oblivion or Mundus (the two are often synonymous in their sermons) in order to help mortals in some way. Magnus briefly visited Mundus to create Magic, Y’ffre became the first Earth-Bones, Auri-El allowed himself to be bound to Nirn to impart some Order in the mortal realm, and Merid-Nunda descended for the reasons already explained. Controversial as Daedra worship is in Colovia, these Revivalists claim the Bright Lady is not really a Daedra, who are born from the blood of Padomay, but a Star, blood of Anu, and therefore belongs to the holiest sect of Gods. In fact, she is doubly worthy of veneration because she willingly sacrificed her Divine Birthright to offer stability and eternal life to her followers.*

*For the less pious folk of the Imperium, Red Star Day is mostly another excuse for merrymaking. Especially popular is the children’s game of “light-catching,” where in imitation of Merid-Nunda they go running about the darkness trying to catch as many torchbugs as they can. Most of the population being Bosmer, the children celebrate by eating their catch when they get back home.*
