In many conservative regions of Tamriel, dear reader, you may find that arcane institutions still cling to the outdated terminology which classifies magicka under the Schools of “Restoration,” “Destruction,” “Illusion,” “Alteration,” and so on. To a learned mind of the Second Potentate, this may sound rather archaic, being a throwback to the Galerion-influenced thinking of the Mages Guild, but in the name of tolerance and compassion we implore you not to snicker at our rural neighbors. The magical reformation is, after all, still a fairly recent innovation in the grand scheme of history.

Indeed, let us briefly cast our minds back to the Second, Third and early Fourth Eras. Those periods were dominated by conflict and disparity, when magic was primarily the domain of wizards looking to gain greater power so they may conquer their enemies. It is for that very reason magical “schools” were organized by what a spell effect _does_ rather than where it _comes from_. Now, after two Great Wars and a world-altering Plague, we live in more civilized times. No longer do we engage in open warfare, preferring instead to resolve matters through diplomacy and trade. The Mages Guild is a thing of the past, and its successors are splintered into factions. Entire new arcane industries and fields of research have been developed, or else more fully invested in than they ever were before. Therefore magical academia has changed to meet the needs of this new age.

It was the [[Conclave of Syrabane]] in Firsthold which first began to study the esoteric arts according to a more modern classification system: varliance for magicka which radiates down to us from Aetherius, geomancy for magic derived from working the natural world, psychomancy for magic derived the creatia inherent to souls, and of course tonal manipulation for the ancient art of sound magic. Since then other institutions have adopted this list and added to it: the [[University of Gwylim]] also teaches auramancy, magic worked from memory, for example; and the [[Scholar Wave Academy]] in Rihad have controversially added Flesh Magic to their range of study. Under this paradigm, we recognize that the most important essence of magic is its _source_, so that it may be better put in an economic and social context. The old-fashioned wizards of the past, working alone in their towers, must remain in the past.