 The [[Shornhelm Mages Society]], [[Order of the Golden Staff]], and the [[Northpoint Historical Foundation]] would like to present to the illustrious guide a portrait of the western half of the [[Greater Wrothgaria and Karth]]. Our sisters in [[Solitude]] have assured us that they will be presenting a separate document detailing how our eastern half, in its own Nordic ways, has mirrored our land that was formerly under the banner of High Rock. While we have not always been siblings on paper, we have shared more in common than many may have considered. If you would allow us to wax poetic, our vistas are unique for their blend of high mountain crags, rocky shores beset with shipwrecks, and the ice off the coasts. This landscape is reflected in our hardened people with the hope that springs from lighthouses. From the Ayleid legends of Anurraame at Erokii, now the Doomcrag, to the sundering of the mountains on Crestshade in 2E, and forward, we have been home to a passionate people. Hiding under the stoic faces of the fisherfolk of [[Northpoint]] and the knights of [[Shornhelm]] are the poets and romantics that find beauty in our stark landscape. Dibella’s mysteries and lilies are found in every tavern. When the sun sets over the shipwrecks off Northpoint and they are cast in the light of our lighthouses, you’ll hear the bards sing of those lost among them. 

We have also had our share of vampires and ghosts. It should be noted that over by the ruins of Crestshade is the large castle that was the seat of Ravenwatch. We now know that they were a vampire clan that could be trusted to keep watch over the mortals of [[Rivenspire]]. I have seen plenty of painting camps tour the area to get good views of the old manor. It is advised to go with one of the guarded tour companies, however. Northpoint and Shornhelm have both seen growing theater districts in recent years. The plays presented in Northpoint tend to be more nautical. The Shornhelm Players are often pulling out historical records of knightly virtue and conspiracy. Both will showcase plays that detail the rise of Northpoint, King Ranser’s War, and the various tragedies that have at times ruled our area with an iron fist. Given our very northern climate, we would recommend visiting in the summer months, unless you are of hardy stock. In the winter months, there are festivals along the coast near Northpoint that celebrate the end of the current year and the beginning of new one with ways that mirror our Nordic sisters — plunging into the frigid waters and warming up at one of the bonfires on the shores. Excursions into those freezing waters to find waterlogged treasures are frequent, though not recommended for novices.