*One of the few locations still worth visiting in Alinor City is the Great Temple of the Divines. It remains a glistening tribute to the Gods of the Aldmer, with a small but dedicated group of priests maintaining the ancient shrines to Mara, Xarxes, and Magnus. A careful observer may notice there is no shrine to Auriel and - even more curiously - most of the visitors to the Temple these days are traveling foreigners.*

 

*The truth is that the Altmer people have become ever more secular over the years. It began in the waning days of the Third Era when conservative Altmer began to adopt The Old Ways of the Psijic Monks in an attempt to maintain “cultural purity” in the face of Imperial rule. Then the Crystal Tower shattered during the Oblivion Crisis, leaving many Altmer to feel abandoned by Auriel to the Daedric hordes. That the tyrannical Thalmor emblazoned themselves with symbols of the Eagle God only cemented the growing disillusionment with him as public opinion slowly turned against their regime. By the rise of the Sapiarchy, most people in Alinor were more interested in the mystical and intellectual traditions of the Psijic than the dogmatic faith of the Divine Prosecution (which would soon be abolished anyway).*

&#x200B;

*Among the general populace, this looks like veneration of the Acharyai, the oldest spirits which preceded the Aedra and Daedra, and only “feeding” the positive forces through good works while “starving” the negative forces by abstaining from greed, violence, and hedonism. The Divines are largely perceived as myth-echoes and divine fragments of Anu the Everything, more cosmic forces than true Beings with will or personality. Most homes now have a family shrine, containing a Divine Genealogy tracing one’s ancestors all the way back to the Dawn. Poorer families or those of mixed ancestry are often unable to acquire such information, however, and so the old divisions between castes still survive in some form. These individuals still attend Temple services, though mostly on holy days, and even then the rituals are valued more for their symbolic power to maintain harmony than as true expression of love and devotion to the impersonal Aedra.* 

&#x200B;

 *For the Wise the Elder Way is highly idiosyncratic to each specific Sapiarch. The Assistant Sapiarch in Lilandrill, for example, has publicly stated that there is no purpose to worshiping ascendant mortals, and only pays reverence to Anu. This view was castigated by the Sapiarch of Mythohistory at the College, who described his views as “childishly ignorant” and “betraying a lack of understanding of basic cosmological lore.” She instead worships the Ur-Dra Anu, Padomay, Anuiel, Namira, Nocturnal, Azura, Hermeaus Mora and Vaermina. This view was in turn criticized by Gantar of Sunhold, Sapiarch of Grammatical Correctness, who insisted Daedra means “not our ancestors” and they cannot, therefore, be Ur-Dra.* 

&#x200B;

*The radicals of Alinor are largely irreligious, but those who practice have become obsessed with theories that Lorkhan created the mortal world so that spirits could change “into a shape that is always new.” They have imported copies of the 36 Lessons of Vivec and Commentaries on the Mysterium Xarxes, and have lively discussions about the merits of the Psijic Endeavor. The obsession with eternal revolution and continual self reinvention is most obvious in the painted masks they wear, a tradition that started in the House of Reveries in Rellenthil, which allows the wearers to become whatever they want to be, but always “the Beautiful.”* 