The Colovian West. Craglorn. Eastern Hammerfell. Stretching nearly from the Iliac Bay to Nibenay, this region of Tamriel has gone by many names in the past, and in the last centuries it has gained another: the [[Great Steppe]].

Always wilder and less populated than the surrounding regions, the Steppe has only become more wild and lawless since the beginning of the Fourth Era. The lingering disorder of the Oblivion Crisis, the unrest of the Stormcrown Interregnum, and the low-level but continuous uprisings during the early decades of the Mede Dynasty were portents of what was to come: the First Great War, depopulation, rioting, & martial law, followed scant decades later by the [[Second Great War]] and the [[Silver Plague]] & ensuing further depopulation and chaos. Exacerbated by a drying, shifting climate decreasing the suitability of the region for large-scale agriculture, the Steppe has become Tamriel’s largest area of land unclaimed by any unified nation-state.

This is not to say the region has no inhabitants, or cities. On the contrary, the Great Steppe has what some would call a flourishing population: in the southeast, many of the surviving city-states have loosely bound themselves together into the [[Colovian Estates]]; to the northwest, independent and isolated city-states are scattered: [[Belkarth]] in Craglorn, [[Stonemoor]], [[Helland]], all the way to the borders of the [[Yokedate]] in the recently-annexed [[Ska’vyn]]. Nor is the population confined to the walls of the city-states, as throngs of nomads, wanderers, wildlanders and drifters have sprung up, calling the region their home, many and most surly and recalcitrant: most famously the Bjoulsae horsemen and the [[Imperial Legions]] of Colovia.

Despite the dangers of the Steppe, it has nonetheless become a lucrative overland trade route among merchant caravans seeking to avoid taxation and the destination of many adventurers and treasure hunters seeking fables and myths among the shifting, half-forgotten landscape.

Read on, readers, and discover the Great Steppe - hopefully from a place safer than the Steppe itself.