Much controversy has needlessly clouded the historicity and scholarship about General Attrebus Mede, most sensationally unsatisfied with the most evidentiary explanation of vanishing unto stormy seas. The evacuation was his very last resort as supreme military commander of the Imperial Legion; it was a strategic retreat with all intentions of regrouping at a specified point and resuming the [[Second Great War]] from there. The obscurity of their destination was crucial to the operational security and success of their endeavor. The contemporary consensus that their ultimate destination was [[Orsinium]] in the Dragontail Mountains can be best understood as a misdirection, especially since Orsinium has repeatedly refuted the reality of this contingency despite renegade reports to the contrary. Their egress via boat, down the Brena River and out into the Abecean Sea, has been extensively documented. Yet strangely strong storms, the hazardous and rapid nature of the river’s watershed, and the persistence of pirates and the still active and adversarial Aldmeri armada on the high seas are all well documented too.

Still to this day, nearly two centuries later, the belief in the rapturous return of General Attrebus is strong among Colovians, their strongheaded sovereigns, and especially the many successive cohorts of the Imperial Legion which claim lineage from the commander and nativity to the lands. Remember, dear reader, the absence of evidence _is not_ evidence of absence, heed not the brays of misinformed bullies; often the truth is the simplest explanation utilizing the most comprehensive interpretations of all available sources!

*YgM: Oi, this is a bandage on the Potentate’s wounded pride if I’ve ever seen one! Makes you wonder if they know something we don’t about this “War of Two Emperors” nonsense. I suppose we’ll find out the truth for sure if His Most High Excellency ever embarks on that much-anticipated expedition to Akavir… they’ll have to change the title to “Two Emperors, One Potentate” when that happens though!*
