_The origin of slide-rock bolters is unclear, with some naturalists insisting they are an artificially created species, and others claiming they are a natural yet oft-overlooked animal native to Craglorn. Whatever the case, these creatures have become widespread across the Steppe, making their homes in mountainous regions. The Colovian Highlands in particular have become infested, presenting no small threat to travelers._

_Physically, bolters are most often compared to massive earwigs. A forked, pincer-like “tail” helps anchor the bolter to hillsides via grasping trees, boulders, or brush. The main body is covered in slick, chitinous armor on both abdomen and back, with three legs on either side for propulsion. (The bolter is incapable of fully lifting itself off the ground, and moves by sliding or slithering on its abdomen.) The creature’s “head” is dominated by a massive mouth capable of swallowing a horse and rider whole. Bolters have almost vestigial eyes, and instead utilize a pair of feelers protruding from the head to sense vibrations in the ground._

_Bolters are primarily ambush predators. Their preferred method of hunting consists of anchoring themselves to slopes along game trails or roadways to lay in wait for prey to pass below. Upon sensing a worthwhile target, the bolter will release its grasp and propel itself downwards, mouth agape, to attack and swallow whatever lies below._

_While not generally aggressive, slide-rock bolters have proven to be a growing threat to travelers in the Steppe. Their unexpected means of attack and spread to new regions have caught many unawares, with lethal results._