The [[Aalto]]’s system of selecting a Jarl is notably distinct from the rest of the Commonwealth. Unlike most of the holds, with the exception of County [[Bruma]], the Jarl is neither elected by the people or selected by the hold moot. Instead, the position of Jarl is granted to the most senior priestess of Kyne in the hold. Whosoever is determined to be both the oldest and longest-serving - often the same - is installed at the sacred grove at [[Kynesgrove]], to hold the position until either death or abdication. Any woman wishing to abdicate the position is required to leave the hold entirely.

As a consequence of the mandate that the most senior priestess _in the hold_ is the Jarl, it is typically held that the Jarl cannot leave the hold, else the position be passed to the next in line. As such, unlike most other holds, where two individuals are elected to the positions of Jarl - executive of the hold in the hold - and Harbinger - executive of the hold at the Great Moot - and will switch positions midway through their two-year term, the individual who is Jarl will _always_ be in the hold, and the Harbinger will _always_ be at the Great Moot. Harbingers of the Aalto are often but not always relatives of the Jarl, either spouses, children, grandchildren, siblings, or nieces and nephews.

This system has proven to be less stable than one might expect. While insulated from the instability of elections that other holds may experience, there is no guarantee that the Jarl will be a capable leader, or serve for an extended period of time. In the case of one exceptional string of Jarls, a single year saw no less than five women elevated to the position.

By far the most remembered consequence of this system is referred to as the “Geriatric Spat” by historians. In 4e326, Jarl [[Brunhilde]], a priestess of seventy-seven years of age, decided to attend the summer Great Moot, ostensibly to speak on a perceived slight to the Aalto by Whiterun’s Temple of Kyne. Returning to the hold, she found that another woman had claimed the position of Jarl - her friend, [[Guthrun]], also seventy-seven. Guthrun refused to vacate the position, claiming that Brunhilde leaving the hold negated her claim to the position, and that Guthrun was in fact the elder of the two, a claim that could be neither verified nor denied. For two and a half years, both women claimed the position of Jarl, bringing executive matters to a standstill and preventing any Harbinger of the hold from attending the Great Moot. Finally tiring of the situation, the Aalto’s hold moot decided to resolve the situation, but not by instituting a democratic election. Instead, the moot dispatched members of the Silver Companions to the Temple of Kyne in Whiterun, to see if the Temple was aware of any priestesses of indisputable seniority who would be willing to claim the position of Jarl.

The Temple, bemused but understanding, was able to render aid. A Dunmer priestess by the name of [[Anareth]], indisputably born during the Silver Plague, accompanied the [[Silver Companions]] back to Kynesgrove, whereupon she was installed as Jarl and protected from assassination attempts by the Silver Companions. Anareth reigned for thirteen years as Jarl, by all accounts a capable and beloved ruler, until both contenders had died of old age and a suitable replacement was found. Anareth of the Aalto then abdicated the position, declaring her intent to “finally leave the hold and have a breath of air that doesn’t smell of sulphur” to great applause and laughter from the citizens of the hold.

In the decades since the Geriatric Spat, the Aalto has not had a similar event, aided in no small part by the moot declaring that each priestess of Kyne must have indisputable proof and documentation of her age and birth date. As a side effect, the Aalto is now noteworthy among Snow-Throat’s holds for issuing birth certificates for all citizens born in the hold, and Speakers at the Great Moot have seen modest success in encouraging other holds to do the same.