Everybody knows about the famous Knights of Iliac Bay, but few outside of the region really understand what that term means for locals. The reasons for that are many - the association some of the orders have with the Temples makes us confuse them with the Colovian tradition of Crusaders, self-appointed 'holy warriors'. The cultural divide as represented by the Kingsguard mountains is also not something many outsiders pick up. I was surprised to discover how much the functioning of Wrothgarian Barons in their rural holds is different from the Iliac Knights in their cities.

Not the least important reason is the support all the Empires loaned to the hereditary autocratic rulers. The fixation on the Kings and their genealogies - including countless Septim heirs and bastards running around - fully overshadowed the structure below them. So, the whole region was mythologized as some sort of relict of 'ancient Direnni Altmer hierarchies'.

Let me explain the practice in simple terms. Knights (or Gallants, as they are known at the southern coast) are citizen-soldiers. Every one of them has a responsibility to equip themselves, train themselves, join one of the Knightly orders as an aspirant, and if successful, is sponsored by that order to full Knighthood. Only then have they a right to cast a vote on the city council, or be elected to the position in the city government.

In general, the people of the region - I would say Bretons here, but the Redguards of the southern coast of the Iliac Bay tend to be very similar culturally - see virtue in a very holistic way. If one is successful, it is because one is smart, and beautiful, and educated, and strong both in body and in magic. And that means one is virtuous and blessed by the Gods. The Knights, therefore, represent the approximation of the ideal - a fully-rounded individual, distinguished both in their breeding (as signified by the ornate armor and weapons their family provides) and their own achievement.

Obviously, that institution is far less egalitarian than our Guilds. The cost of equipment and training is far greater than the entrance fee, and the 'charity cases' sponsored by the Temples are few and far in between, and tend to come from the Temple orphanages. The reliable statistics are impossible to find, but by my impression at most one in seven adult city-dwellers is a full citizen.

The association of the citizenship with military valor loans the institution certain savagery as well. Being good at breaking heads doesn't make one automatically a good businessman or decision-maker - however the people of the Iliac Bay may believe otherwise.

But the significant similarities not only with our Guild elections, but also with the Moots of the barbarian North-West, or complicated procedures of appointing war-chiefs among the Bjoulsae nomads and Reachmen clans make me believe they all stem from some ancestral Nedic practice. And the similar practices of Freehold, Resdayn and even Sapiarchs of Alinor hint that the idea of selecting virtuous citizens who would then delegate certain decisions to the (temporarily) chosen rulers had once been a tradition of all Elhnofey people.

Enough of my theorizing and to more practical advice - if your portly and balding Breton shopkeeper styles himself a Knight, you better believe he still is a proficient Spellsword. And if he doesn't have his ornate silvered armor, sword and shield in his back room, it is only because his eldest heir is now using it.