Kyne’s Sacred Trials is a common coming-of-age ritual undertaken by youths in the Commonwealth. While this ritual may be administered by any devout hunter to their pupils, it is most commonly performed - and most formalized - at Whiterun’s Temple of Kyne. Here, alone and in small bands, hunters will be allowed to test themselves.

The first, and unofficial, trial is one with an ancient history. The hunters must prove their worth by taking down an ice wraith, either with a weapon of choice or their bare hands, whichever suits them. When this is done, they are seen to have proven themselves, and earned the sponsorship of an elder. Only then are they allowed to proceed.

The rite itself begins with the anointing of the hunter with a paste of mixed animal fat and ashes. A symbol is drawn upon their forehead, a binding magic to draw forth animal spirits into the world. The hunters will then be sent out to pursue their prey, trusting to their training, instincts, and the subtle yet undeniable draw of the magic coursing through them. No two spirits have ever been found in the same place, so while each hunter may follow in the steps of their forebears, they must ultimately chart their own course across the land.

The first animals that an aspirant will hunt are typically smaller, less dangerous, and able to be brought down alone. Mudcrabs along the shores of rivers and ponds, skeevers haunting ruins and crags, wolves stalking through the forests of Ilinalta, even hardy-footed goats among the crags of mountains. Comparatively easy quarry, for once one has been judged worthy, they will be set to task on more dangerous prey.

The second round of trials sees aspirants tested in their ability to cooperate. Their quarries are now larger and more dangerous, requiring the solitary hunters to be solitary no more, and far more cunning. Hunters will be anointed in groups, sharing the same paste, to hunt bears, boars, saber cats and mammoths (not the mammoths of the giants, mind) - all prey that are only hunted alone by the foolhardy. Spears now take the place of bows, and the land itself becomes a tool, as hunters plot out drives and ambushes.

The last round of the trials is the most dangerous, and takes the hunters farther afield. Trolls are a common prey, and may often turn the tables so that the hunter becomes the hunted, while horkers, though robust, prove a danger as their packs may converge on the unwary. But the greatest hunt of all takes the aspirants to the decks of ships - here, on the icy waves of the Sea of Ghosts, they must hunt whales with harpoon and net.

Such trials have become commonplace across Snow-Throat in the years since the resurgence of the Nordic variety of faith, but are not confined to Nords. Many Orsimer take part as well, alongside Bosmer, Colovians, and Dunmer, seeking to find and prove their worth. Few Giants have seen fit to participate, instead keeping to their own ancient rites.

But despite the popularity of the Sacred Trials, some hunters scorn them as archaic and restrained. Instead, the Hunt of Jorrvaskr beckons, with its ancient timbered hall, its pelts and bones, and most of all, the opportunity to hunt the most dangerous game of all - the fellow hunter.