Never is the cosmopolitan spirit of Nibenay as obvious as when you walk down the twisting side streets of [[Cheydinhal]], where the street vendors ply their trade. While the universal base of meat fried in its grease and flatbread baked from the flour of preference is the same, the minute nuances of herbs and spices used, of the vegetables and sauces, tell the story of each particular vendor, and to which of the Potentate's many people they belong. Meat heavy and sweet, roasted so long that it falls apart, served with lightly scorched fruits and nuts on a thin hard flatbread to be eaten with hands - or paws, as the case may be - marks the cooking of the catpeople. Heartland Nibenese stalls stand out for the pungency of a fermented fish sauce, which is an acquired taste even for many of us, but street cooking uses it everywhere - to marinate meat, to sprinkle vegetables and rice, and even to add it to fermented cabbage as is done in the southern style. If it is fermented cabbage in the northern style you prefer, it is served across the street, by a grumpy Nord or Colovian, and paired with a blood sausage and doughy wheat bread. Although softer, fluffier breads are what sets Breton cuisine apart - but their preference for mellow, buttery white sauces with garlic as the only distinct spice makes it a niche taste among the Heartland folk, who prefer their food hotter, spicier, and more browned by the flames.

What marks the street food of Potentate cities though is not only its diversity, but also a very specific, calcified way we connect the expected taste with the nation, or dare I say breed, of the vendor serving it. It was an unexpected shock in my travels to discover that in those various far-away places they do not cook, eat or serve in the manner of their cousins who inhabit the Heartlands. Nor is street food such a widespread phenomenon in the whole of civilized - and uncivilized - world. Dunmer cooking would be the best example here. We have come to expect a very specific taste under that name - salt-rice, dry but fluffy, fire-red chitinous joints of various critters with white meat to be sucked out, and ash yam, steaming and falling apart. Yet what you are served in the floating city of Sul will be completely different - rich savoury fish stews, or steamed vegetables from their hanging gardens. Above all, the meal would be private, cooked at home and served in the quiet of an inner yard.

That is a sentiment that Resdayn shares with most other cultures. Eating on the run, which we in Nibenay see as a mark of industriousness, most of the world perceives as a sign of poverty - akin to the disdain we feel for the watery vegetable broths of Arkayn soup kitchens. Even the Iliac Bay with its own tradition of public eateries prefers them slow - quiet enclosed tavernas, where multi-course meals progress from a spread of entrees to a rich main meal, all washed down with watered wine in the local fashion.

I have already commented in passing how different the modern fare of the Iliac is from what we think of as Breton. Instead of poultry in creamy sauces, it is heavy on red meats, grilled, dried or salted. Perhaps it is the influence of the southern, Redguard half of the Iliac. Or perhaps it is the effect of the way their modern agriculture is organized, as animal husbandry and crop growing are dependent on each other, rather than competing. Oxen, fed on grain, are harvested for their souls to power the ploughs and the carts that are used to grow and harvest the same grain - and the abundance of this rich meat becomes almost a byproduct.

The only other place with rich street food tradition that I managed to find in my travels is Wrothgaria, and specifically Solitude. With its Seminary, its wandering court, and a local nobility that gathers only for rare festivities, it has by necessity adapted to its irregular populace. What is more, the multitude of ethnic cuisines familiar to us have been imported wholesale as part of their all-encompassing Septim nostalgia - even though a familiar Khajiit-style roast would be prepared by Nord hands there.