During the chaos of the Silver Plague, the city of Falkreath in Skyrim was cut off from the rest of Tamriel. To the south and west, the Plague and the aftershocks of the Second Great War raged, to the north, trade and travel had vanished, bands of roving bandits and Forsworn making travel by road all but impossible. River trade on the White River and Lake Ilinalta had vanished, cutting off the east.

Faced with this, the Jarl of Falkreath and the commander of the Imperial garrison were faced with a difficult choice: which route should they secure? The city needed food and supplies, and to establish contact with any outside authority. 

Together, they chose north. The south, they said, was too dangerous, the east unknown, but to the north, they could secure a route to the plains and beyond - bandits and Forsworn would melt away before the Legion.

So they marched north, to reach the town of Half-Moon on the shores of Ilinalta, where they built a fort of rough timber, then north again, through the western foothills of the Brittleshins to the town of Granite Hill on the plains of Whiterun. Another fort was built and a garrison left behind, and again the legion marched north, to the town of Rorikstead. Yet another garrison was established, and the march began again, in a constant running battle with Forsworn raiders from the west. At the river Hjaal, the Legion turned and held, claiming the old fort of Robber's Gorge as they sent runners north to the town of Dragon Bridge and the city of Morthal asking for aid. And aid came, the remaining Imperial troops marching south from Solitude.

Today, the route the Falkreath Legion followed is known as the Legion Road, with fortresses established along its length, ruled by the descendants of the legion, granted lordships by the Kingdom of Greater Wrothgar and Karth. The road secures trade north and south, giving the coastal kingdom access to the bountiful harvests of the city of Rorikstead and the mines and forests of Falkreath.