Before the [[Sload migration to Tamriel]], little had been seen of them since the Third Era, but when the Silver Plague began to sweep across Tamriel they were immediately suspected. Several kingdoms scrambled to muster their weakened forces for an expedition to Thras, but Wrothgaria and Karth were the first to successfully pull together the necessary resources. They enlisted the help of the College of Winterhold, and in 4E 219, the expedition fleet launched towards the Coral Isle. 

The college’s assistance was necessary due to Thras’ habitual changing of its position and shape. Locating the island proved difficult, but it was eventually detected far northwest of the Iliac Bay, in the icy northern reaches of the Sea of Ghosts, near Atmora. This was a strange discovery, as Sload were thought to do poorly in colder climates, and the scryers at the college had to reaffirm their findings several times before Queen Elisif approved the voyage. 

The expedition did not return for several months, and left four of their ships in the frozen waters when they did. Their findings were nearly too incredible to be believed: Thras had risen from the sea, the chain of islands becoming a single large continent that had seemingly anchored itself in place. The first thing the awestruck sailors had seen was an enormous spire, stretching into the sky as far as the eye could see. This had been sighted nearly three days before they made land, and only upon exploring the island did they realize that it was a monolithic mass of the same coral that made up the land itself, attached to the ground at the base. This was the so-called Pillar of Thras, which the Sload had traditionally used to carry out sacrificial murder by way of pushing the unfortunate victims from the top. It had been described in the All-Flags Navy’s records from their assault on the island, but had not been noted as being nearly as large as it stands now, and had indeed collapsed during the battle. It is now estimated to extend some number of miles into the sky, though the top has never been seen, even during later expeditions carried out on dragonmount. Some have theorized that it now extends underwater as well, and this is what hinders the island from its former migratory behavior.

The island at first seemed abandoned, but as the explorers drew closer to the Pillar, they began to encounter elderly Sload scattered about, their soft bodies rendered immobile on the hard, frozen coral. Official expedition records claim that these remnants were not considered a threat to the Wrothgarian travelers, yet later voyages carried out by the Potentate found piles of burned Sload corpses scattered about the isle. The expedition’s members have never confessed to harming any of Thras’ inhabitants, so one can only speculate. 

What is known not to be their doing is the array of Sload corpses that lay scattered around the base of the Pillar. These were initially difficult to identify as such, as most are little more than mounds of viscera. The source of these became readily apparent, however, as it was observed that every few hours a Sload would seemingly fall from the sky, splattering unceremoniously onto the ground. The first Wrothgarian expedition did not uncover the cause of the “Raining Slugs” (as the initial explorers called them), but later investigations by scholars from other provinces, as well as firsthand accounts from some Thrassian refugees, have confirmed strange behavior that is exhibited by the remnants of Thras.

When the island erupted from the sea, many Sload were killed, and most of the survivors fled. The few who remained developed a strange fixation on the Pillar of Thras, and some began to believe that it now extended all the way to Aetherius, acting as an earthly tether to the source of all magic. The faithful gathered around the base of the Pillar, performing experiments and rituals in an attempt to harness this connection. Then one day, they began to climb. 

It seems the Thrassian remnant thinks that if one reaches the top of the Pillar, they can ascend to Aetherius, and thus a higher state of being. And so they slowly climb, gripping the sharp coral with their flabby fingers, or using levitation spells to propel their large bodies upwards. Most will lose concentration, slip, or succumb to exhaustion, and fall down to be added to the putrid piles of slug matter that litter the land around the Pillar. It is unknown if any have completed the climb, although the ones waiting for their turn below claim to see evidence whenever one of their brothers or sisters has ascended. The Tamrielic Sload seem to look down on this practice, most of them calling the remnant zealots. Old Thras is now rarely visited, but the Pillar can be seen for miles, and the occasional sailor will talk of seeing a sudden, blinding flash of light from the sky surrounding it.