For many years, the Empire allowed the Dark Brotherhood to spread its dark presence across Tamriel. Throughout much of their existence, they operated in nearly every province, and took on contracts freely from anyone who would pay their fee. However, the beginning of the 4th Era saw a sharp decline in the organization, and by the time of the Dragon Crisis the Penitus Oculatus reported that they had destroyed the last remaining Brotherhood Sanctuary. This, of course, was a short lived victory, as only days later Titus Mede II was assassinated. There is debate as to who perpetrated the murder, but the Dark Brotherhood was quickly given credit, and a brutal Imperial inquisition was carried out on any suspected of aiding or utilizing the organization. Despite this, the Empire’s continual mishandling of the matter allowed a small sect of the Brotherhood to begin rebuilding the guild, and by the start of the Second Great War they were utilized frequently to assassinate political or military targets. 
When the Silver Plague brought the war to an abrupt halt, one would think that the guild of killers would find themselves largely out of work, as the disease that ravaged Tamriel often did their job for them. Yet their services were still called upon with surprising frequency, and the Plague provided ample cover for an untold number of murders, further strengthening the Brotherhood’s growing foothold.
Thus when the Potentate rose to power and began recovery efforts from War and Plague alike, they had the additional problem of a growing assassin’s guild, which continually operated outside of the law, festering beneath the surface of the newly established society. 
Esteemed Potentate Helseth swiftly set to work on the issue, creating a specialized military team to hunt down the Dark Brotherhood’s sanctuaries within Potentate territories, ultimately succeeding where the Empire could not and wiping out the organization’s presence in a matter of months. No longer can the profane “Black Sacrament” be performed to summon a murderer-for-hire. Indeed, performing the ritual is outlawed, and will earn one nothing but a long stay in the local dungeon. 
Many say that the Brotherhood still exists in more uncivilized parts of the world, operating freely in the Skyrim Commonwealth and along the Baandari coast. Whatever the case, citizens of the Potentate can rest easy, knowing they are safe from such savage practices as paid murder, and that any hint of the Dark Brotherhood’s presence in the Potentate will be met with extreme prejudice.

*It’s true that citizens can’t hire Dark Brotherhood assassins anymore, but most of us know that it’s not because they were wiped out. Helseth Hlaalu would never throw away an asset, and it’s said that the Brotherhood has been an asset to him since before the First Great War. Opponents of the Potentate often turn up dead, and it’s rumored that the captain of Helseth’s personal guard, a Dark Elf called Dram, is the secret leader of the New Brotherhood. These rumors are spread freely, ignored by the Potentate, and it even seems that Helseth may enjoy the speculation. It’s not as if anyone can do anything about it, unless they’d like a poisoned arrow buried in their chest. I’ve heard talk of “True Brothers of Darkness” in other territories, who follow the old ways of the Brotherhood and offer assassinations to anyone who’s got the coin. Not that it interests me. If I want someone dead, I’ve got a good sharp axe and a strong arm.*
*-Yzmul Gra-Maluk*