*The mystery of Elden Root has baffled Potentate scholarship. The city was burned down by the Thalmor during the Second Great War in failed efforts to crush rebellion. Today, however, it has regrown to its previous size in but a fraction of the time that its progenitor did. The native explanation, as we will describe below, is not taken very seriously by academics but remains a fixture of Bloodtoil spirituality, a “founding myth” if you will.* 

*It is said that the Thalmor sought to sever the Bosmer’s connection to the Green once and for all by destroying the great tree cities: Elden Root, Brakenleaf, Falinesti, and most crucially Silvenar. While they failed with Falinesti, the other settlements left ashen scars across the sacred forests. But worse was the spiritual scar left by the death of the Silvenar, voice of the Bosmer people. The Green Lady, enraged, called out to the Green-that-is-Z’en, Spirit of Repayment in Kind. She became monstrous and feral, and so did her Bosmer followers. A Wild Hunt like the world had never seen ravaged the Thalmor governorships, literally devouring them, before the Lady herself disappeared into her home of Deepwoods. When a new Silvenar manifested, he was ungrateful for the sacrifices the Green Lady and her faithful had made, instead leading a group of Bosmer north to the city of Kvatch.*

*Meanwhile, a High Prophet of the Green began to speak on the Lady’s behalf, teaching that it was the corruption and decadence of modern civilization which had weakened the Bosmer and the other peoples of Valenwood. In this doctrine, only the Green Pact could ensure the security of the tribes and restore the lost glories of the ancients. And the Prophet was, allegedly, proven right: using the seeds of the old Elden Grove they were able to create a new one. They fertilized the land with the blood of the faithful, who sacrificed themselves to become one with the Green much in the same way Y’ffre and the other Earth Bones had supposedly done in the Dawn Age.* 

*The veracity of such claims is almost impossible to determine. The Green Lady has been missing for a very long time, and scholars are kept from examining the new trees in fear they will somehow “taint” the “marrow” of the Green. The leading theory proposed by Aphia Megulus of the University of Bravil holds that the legend hints to the truth that the modern tree-cities are kept strong and healthy by some barbaric blood magic rituals.*

*The difficulty in studying such myths lies in the decentralized nature of the Green Prophecy. The religion was founded by a figure known only as the Precursor, a wandering Bosmer prophet who attracted a large following in the late Third Era and early Fourth Era by claiming Y’ffre would soon return to offer great gifts to the tribes of Valenwood. When the Aldmeri Dominion outlawed this movement it only grew in popularity. The High Prophet in the time of the Bloodtoil Uprising, an Imga called the Successor, began teaching that the Green had many faces: Y’ffre to the Bosmer, Mauloch and Z’en to the Orcs, Ius and Muluk to the Gobllins, Khenarthi to the Khajiit, and on and on it goes. This new pan-racial version of the faith allowed a true coalition of tribes to establish dominance over the region, but it also demanded variation. Thus, almost anyone can call themselves a Green Prophet, and the religion has no fixed doctrines (as words can never truly describe the Spirit of the Now), creating a faith that is highly prone to sectarianism. To be* respected *as a Prophet, however, usually involves years of preaching, teaching, and meditation, and the High Prophet is always elected by the oldest and most respected Green Prophets in the Chorus.*

*Elden Root remains a popular spot for pilgrims from across Tamriel, despite the dangers of Bloodtoil "society." Spriggans watch with fixed gazes as Potentate Bosmer come to pray at the Elden Tree, and sympathetic natives do their best to rush the foreigners along before they inevitably do something to offend the most zealous of the clergy. Some Prophets, hoping to scare off clueless foreigners, engage in exaggerated displays of mysticism to get "in contact with the Now." Animalistic grunting, loud chanting, consuming large doses of moon sugar, intense mock combat and the like. These fake demonstrations do not fool the savvy Nibenean who can recognize shock tactics from the genuine article, but it is enough to keep to keep the average tourist from lingering too long.*

*\_\_\_\_\_*

*I normally don't go in for all that mysticism, but I was curious so I went ahead and asked a Green Prophet proselytizing in Haven for a summary about their religion. The answer was enough to make me wonder if the Geographical Society is being honest for once:*

**“Some think we are stardust trapped in flesh and bone. Some think we are the children of a Fox or a Dragon, though they cannot decide which. Some think we live in a Gray Maybe. They are wrong. We live in the Green. We live in the Spirit of the Now.”**

**“Sometimes the Green is the trees of the grove, the flowers in the field, the dirt under our toes. We name this Y’ffre. But the Green is the Spirit of the Now.”**

**“Sometimes the Green is the wind and the air, the biting blizzard and the flash of lightning. We name this Khenarthi. But the Green is the Spirit of the Now.”**

**“Sometimes the Green is toil in the field, the bloodlust of vengeance, the reaping and sowing. We name this Z’en. But the Green is the Spirit of the Now.”**

**“Sometimes She comes to us as a Lady. Sometimes They come to us as the Silvenar. Sometimes He is Ius, Father of Animals. But the Green is the Spirit of the Now.”**

**“Sometimes the Green is you and me. Because we are the Spirit of the Now."**