Travelers and merchants making their way along the coasts may come across Orcish traders peddling wares on the backs of domesticated yaks, adorned with banners bearing a Daedric symbol. This is the symbol of the ungoverned city of Orsinium, and by extension their god Malacath. It is advised to avoid these individuals, as both the Potentate and the East Empire Company have labeled them as criminals, and anyone who trades with them in territories belonging to either will be charged with the handling of illicit materials. 
Since the end of the Silver Plague, the rogue City of Orsinium (the “Great Free City of Orsinium” to its residents) has been the subject of the outlandish rumor that they routinely visit the myriad realms of Oblivion, bartering with Daedra for goods not found anywhere in Tamriel. Indeed, many of their traveling merchants do carry exquisite food and drink, rare alchemical ingredients, and weapons and armor of a seemingly otherworldly quality, and can be found on nearly any coast in Tamriel despite having no ships to speak of. 
However, they are in reality dangerous marauders and bandits, their wares stolen from neighboring provinces; their food is pilfered from the houses of nobles of Wrothgar and Karth, their ingredients raided from witches covens in the Druadach Kingdom, and their armaments forged of stolen ebony from mines in the Commonwealth, shaped by Orcish blacksmiths into strange designs. Some scholars theorize that there are in fact many small, scattered bands of raiders, all operating independently in different areas while using the same banner to give the illusion of being part of a single united entity. This creates a mutually beneficial arrangement in which Orsinium seems to exert an enormous reach across Tamriel, making them appear larger and wealthier, and the traders appear to have the backing of the city’s artificially inflated resources, which protects them from other marauders.
Orsinium is in fact a small, disorganized populace, maintaining their stated independence almost entirely through intimidation. Although they claim sovereignty from any larger government, the city is kingless, and does little to negotiate or trade with any legitimate powers. They instead pillage and plunder for supplies, and are ruled by a mad council of “Beseechers” who claim to commune directly with Malacath within his realm of Oblivion, asking the Prince for his opinion on matters of state. Their primary military force is a single rogue dragon, whom they employ as defender of their territory. 
The city is not officially recognized as an independent province by the Potentate or the neighboring Old Kingdom of Hammerfell, but they maintain an alliance with the Kingdom of Wrothgar and Karth, who through generosity or fear extend aid in times of need, though they gain little from this arrangement. 
The savvy traveler should avoid any association with denizens, legitimate or not, of this rogue city, and report their presence in Potentate territories to the Guard.


*I was not born in Orsinium, but I’ve been able to visit a few times. As Orc-ken, I am welcome, but outsiders are generally shunned. Besides the keeping of Malacathi traditions, the main reason for this is the secret workings of their Oblivion Whaleships. They are unlike anything seen in all of Tamriel; giant whalebone frames wrapped in moth silk, reinforced with orichalc and waving enormous sails bearing Malacath’s sigil. 
With these they travel to the Ashpit, Malacath’s domain and a gateway to all realms. They bring back many strange and exotic wares, and use the same ships to travel trade routes along the coast, traveling and docking underwater to avoid being seen. They can be found selling nearly anywhere, but they have a particularly profitable arrangement with the Sanguine cultists of Port Katariah, who they supply with sacred beer and wine from the Prince’s own realm. You can sometimes come across a spare bottle for sale, but it’ll cost you a fortune, and you’ll wake up days later with more regrets than just the coin you spent. 
But the greatest use of the Whaleships is to carry the Beseechers, the mightiest warriors in all Orsinium, who by ritual combat with Daedric beasts earn the right to commune with Malacath himself, who now rules his people by his own word. This is why they remain unassailable, and why Wrothgar and Karth wisely entered an agreement for access to Orsinium’s might in times of war in exchange for their sovereignty. 
It is a harsh and beautiful place, and I hope to see it again.*

*-Yzmul Gra-Maluk*