*The Dragon Monks of the Commonwealth trace their origins to the days of the Silver Plague, from the various groups who wandered the plains of Whiterun. More specifically, the ultimate origins of the cult trace back to a core of fourteen who either journeyed to or met at the Lonely Mountain on the plains of Whiterun, and were tutored in the Voice by at least one dragon.*

*The first three of the fourteen are claimed to have been members of the Companions of Whiterun, who abandoned the mead-hall of Jorrvaskr in the early days of the plague to wander the plains. The second three were allegedly members of the Whiterun guard, witnesses to the Last Dragonborn's slaying of the dragon Mirmulnir. The third trio are claimed to have once been members of the Blades, who left Sky Haven Temple before it was beseiged by the Forsworn. The last three were members of Kyne's Wanderers, a brotherhood of wandering Kyne-worshipping herders. Of the final two, little is known - many claim that they were the Last Dragonborn and his housecarl Lydia, others claim that they were another Thane and Housecarl of Whiterun, and yet others claim that they were neither. All attempts to determine the identities of the Fourteen have failed, yet there is no doubt that the original founders were of these organizations, evidenced in the traditions of the modern Dragon Monks.*

*These Fourteen, it is said, either journeyed to, or met on, the slopes of the Lonely Mountain in their attempt to shelter from the plague ravaging the land. And there, they met a dragon, or perhaps two, or even three, and were taught how to use the Voice. Some claim that the dragon they met there was Odahviing, patron of the New Tongues, others that it was Paarthurnax, patron of the Greybeards, who has not been seen in centuries, others still claim that there was an undead dragon, or a dragon scaled in gold. Some stories claim that the dragons had fought until only Odahviing remained, others that they cooperated, others that there was only one or the other, never more than one. The truth will likely never be known, as Odahviing has remained silent on the matter.*

*Whatever the truth, the first of Dragon Monks, these neo-Tongues, set out from the Lonely Mountain, wandering warriors who brought peace to the land through their martial skill and the Voice.*

*Today, the Lonely Mountain stands as a holy site for the New Tongues and the Kaal-Drem. No monasteries adorn the slopes, yet it is a pilgrimage site and gathering site, for all those who seek to walk in the steps of the Fourteen.*