*The following is u/Starlit_pies' policy proposal for arms and armor terminology and design in our version of Tamriel.*

Speaking of arms and armor in TES I'd like first to set the perspective. Obviously, we can always say that the original writers in a lot of the cases knew jack shit, and wrote whatever, and we should change it to be realistic.

And that is most likely even true, but I find such approach boring, and loosing the whole attraction of having a speculative world in the first place. Instead, I think a better approach would be to find a somewhat realistic-looking v interpretation that matches the original lore most.

Like, one of the most iconic features early TES games had was a division of armor into light, medium and heavy. And taken at face value, it's the utmost DnDish nonsense, as it takes armors from different time periods and just dumps them together, giving them arbitrary attributes and values. Historically, full chain armors of the 12th century were not lighter than full plate armors of 15th century, they were just less advanced and less protective.

But that's only if we compare TES stuff with the Medieval European stuff. There's another perspective that makes much more sense. After the invention of firearms, the destructive potential of weapons started matching and overtaking the protectiveness of armor. Arguably, on Tamriel weapons always had that potential due to magic and enchantments. So 'heavy armor' shouldn't be comparable to the ~30 kg knightly harnesses. Instead, they should be compared to the later siege armors. Even the lorebook describing fighting in heavy orcish armor doesn't describe a usual armored fighting experience. Instead, it speaks of purposefully slow movements and self-supporting joints. That's not even siege armor, that's some early underwater suit stuff.

So, the first point is that Tamriel's 'heavy armors' are indeed heavy - they are often made of super-dense materials, and often still don't have articulation or joint protection. Again, we could consider that just an artistic liberty, but it is also fully in line with latter thicker armors sacrificing such fine details on favor of better chest and head protection.

The second point is a more personal preference. Tamrielic cultures famously draw from a diverse set of historical and fictional inspirations. Reducing all of it only to a fixed European period world terribly restrict us. In the same way, restricting the inspirations for one of the Tamrielic cultures to a single IRL culture (the way ESO often does) wouldn't be the best way. Even the boring Skyrim's Nords are a mixture of iron age Scandinavia, 17th century Poland and Conan the Barbarian.

The third point is about the linguistic aspect. It may look like that's a useless nerdy complaint about a fictional culture using the words with real-life etymology, which I usually find stupid. But I think it's a bit different for a lot of arms and armor etymology - most of it is artificial classification, using borrowed words to precisely pinpoint the shape and the cultural origin of a weapon. Like, _otachi_, _miaodao_ and _grossmesser_ mean basically 'big knife' in their respective language, and describe vaguely similar weapons. TES went away from using 'katana' or 'claymore' as in-game terms in favor of 'akaviri sword' and 'two-handed sword', and I believe it to be a good thing.

Finally, to what I believe the general shape of arms and armors should be in the late Fourth Era. The 'technological progress' we have in the setting isn't exactly similar to any IRL historical period. The metallurgy didn't exactly improve - the idea that the ancient cultures had superior tech is a constant running theme. The destructive potential of the weapons isn't likely to progress much either - destruction magics have been a thing like forever. What the soul automation may do is allowing to mass-produce weapons and armor of medium quality in bigger amounts, and non-restricted global trade brings exotic materials everywhere. The character of combat is also less of pitched battles between big armies, and more of maritime conflicts, border disputes and trade route protection between professional and semi-professional units.

So, roughly, I think it would make sense to be inspired by the IRL ~17th century without ripping it off completely. With full articulated heavy plate armors being restricted for siege or tournament use. Meanwhile, most of the armies use what would be a 'medium' kit of a torso protection and open helmet done with the use of rare and exotic materials. Steel and iron half-plate would still be used by guards and militias, and the 'light armors' would be the stuff used by the support units not likely to enter melee, and light cavalry. It would also make sense for the cultures to make a greater contact (despite, or even thanks to, the Empire being shattered). Thus, the iconic items of one culture or polity would be imported and recognized as 'exotic' while being used - Akaviri shortsword, Totambu saber, Resdayn bonemold - that should serve as specific weaponry terms instead of 'wakizashi' or 'scimitar'.

Additional comments from u/Guinefort1:

- Scaling back armor to prioritize the torso and head follows the increasing power of firearms IRL, and matches both the Age of Sail motif and ironically modern military armor.

- Scaling back armor makes sense for an Age of Sail because armor is both heavy and bulky. If there is limited space on a ship, less space for armor equals more space for other stuff. Also, the priorities of naval operations makes the bodily protection of individual sailors superfluous.

- The big leap in technology for the post-Empire era might not be quality, but the advent of mass production. Ex. The couch I'm using is mass produced and inferior in quality to one custom-made by a furniture maker, but it's inexpensive, readily available on the market, and good enough.