The setting overall is in a "Cold War" scenario. The greater powers want to avoid outright war with each other, and sometimes use the lesser powers as proxies. Conflict should generally be about resources and political intrigue, not "reclaiming the lost glories." While the details are always up for discussion on Discord or Reddit, and are usually described in specific chapter drafts, the big picture is as follows:

1. The Potentate tries to scheme against Argonia and Freehold especially, against Resdayn, Anequina and Pelletine to a lesser degree. Sees the Commonwealth, Orsinium and Bloodtoil as ideological opponents, but doesn't act against them much. Low-key supports the Archdiocese as a buffer against that whole Colovian mess, and tries to play the Yokedate against Freehold. The best relations they have are with the League, GW&K and Sapiarchy, as they are good trade partners with nothing to compete about.
2. The League would be a bigger threat to everybody around, but their political system makes them better in defence and trade than in expansion. So their biggest beef is with Freehold. They also compete with Yokedate in trying to get to ancient Yokuda first.
3. GW&K has the most rocky relationships with the Commonwealth, but also the occasional border dispute with Druadach. They don't seem to have any special conflict with the League, as the League prefers to trade south, and GW&K - north. So they are in good relationships with Resdayn and Potentate, and Archdiocese, and even Argonia. When the relationships with the Druadach are especially bad and with the League especially good, they blockade both Bjoulsae and Karth until the Reachmen start behaving.
4. Many people fear the Yokedate, and allow the Bjoulsean hordes to proliferate to keep them in check.
5. Orsinium has a good trade relationship with the Commonwealth, buying whale skeletons, and friendly relations due to the acceptance of Orcs as citizens. The part where Commonwealth Orcs are increasingly abandoning the old traditions grates on the more fundamentalist Orsinium Orcs. Potential for a breakdown in the future, but _ok_ for the present.
6. Argonia, Morrowind and the Potentate are basically in a three-way cold war at the moment, each being of the opinion that the other two hold territories that rightfully belong to them. In particular the Potentate view Argonia as a rising "rival" and a likely competitor for control of Topal Bay.
7. The Ayleid Imperium are a "developing nation" heavily dependent on loans from the Tamrielic Bank of Z'en, i.e. the Republic and the Potentate, who see the Ayleids as basically their joint colony. The Ayleids want to conquer Bloodtoil and establish a port on that lucrative southern trade route. The Republic encourages this, mostly because they don't like having a bunch of uppity Beastfolk anarcho-primitivists in their backyard. Bloodtoil is backed by Anequina and Argonia, mostly to harass the Potentate's ambitions. This means Valenwood is essentially a set-up for a proxy war between the southern powers.