Overall, we are aiming for the "Age of Exploration" vibes of _Redguard_ and _Morrowind_. While technology levels would obviously vary from region to region, most of Tamriel is going to be operating under Renaissance and pre-industrial technology. One of our goals is to move away from the generic “Hollywood Medieval” aesthetics of _Daggerfall_ and _Oblivion_ (with Greater Wrothgaria & Karth being a notable exception to this rule); but a generic “steampunk fantasy” is also to be avoided. There will therefore be plenty of magitek and technology operating under the rules of “weird fantasy” a la _Morrowind_ and the Greg Keyes novels.

Each polity should have its own “theme” appropriate for that culture. Alinor prefers crystals and moonstone in their shipwork, for example, while Argonian ships look like living organisms. A few other guidelines we’ve currently set:

-“Repurposed Dwemer tech” should be kept to a minimum. It is relevant to the cultures of Orsinium and the Telvanni, but for other polities our vision is that Tamriel is moving on and its people inventing their own technologies.

-Magickal automation is a big deal and should be thought about carefully. One of the Potentate’s points of pride is that its labor laws heavily regulate the magickal automation industry; conversely, automation was key to the Iliac League’s wealth and independence. Here, we count large-scale necromancy as automation.

-Large-scale soul-powered technology is currently the name of the game; but it has environmental consequences. Resdayn has currently opted out of this particular branch of the technology arms race given their… _history_ with the stuff. (See the Scathing Bay). It is likely less used in countries that aren’t as wealthy (GW&K and the Commonwealth). The Iliac League’s version of the industry prefers “sympathetic” souls (e.g. using an ox’s soul to enchant a plow) and is considered “quaint” by the standards of other powers.

-Military technology is “tercio pike-and-spell”. Powerful ballistae and spells exist in place of explosives. The Orcs of Orsinium have hot-air balloons. Most military technology is naval, given the focus on naval trade in this timeline’s history.

Other comments:

- As described in the [[Cities of the Potentate. Port Katariah]] snippet, the Potentate dug out the old Reman-era designs. So while their labor laws put restrictions on how much soul energy is available for the immediate use, and everything looks vaguely Morrowind-level technologically, you can suddenly encounter space-age brutalist self-contained arcologies.

- **Orsinium** has what could probably be described as a blend of solarpunk, Da Vinci-esque clockpunk, Dwemer tech, and Orcish engineering. Very little of this is visible to outsiders, though, so to most Orsinium and Druadach seem to be roughly the same.

- The most basic summary of Orcish magitek engineering is that they collect magicka from the sun using moth-silk nets and use it to power magic circles and runes to produce effects. While _efficient_, this is also _slow_ and works best at large scales - and as such these nets and the biggest magic circles can't be hidden. Fortunately, the nets double as water collectors and the largest spell circles can be used as navigation markers for airships and travelers, due to Orsinium's policy of not having signposts.

- Functionally, this means Orsinium's bunkers, tunnels, and places where outsiders don't go have lighting provided by magelight, air filtration, water pumps and heated water, and more, due to careful and clever usage of this magitek integrated with Dwemer designs. However, the scale and low flow of magicka doesn't lend well to large, continuous uses of magic - so no blast furnaces or the like.

- Whaleships and airships both draw from this system. Whaleships are built of moth-silk and whalebone to collect, store, and release energy to travel reality and keep their crews alive, and airships stay aloft by heating air magically. Both move via "solar sails" - using silk panels to capture streams of magicka and produce a push or pull effect.

- The spell circles and collected magicka form a multipurpose defensive net in and around Orsinium, as well as serving as a navigation beacon (an Ashpit-nomicon, if you will) and passive power source for those traversing the Ashpit.

- Orsinium's greatest achievement, however, is that they have teleported at least one and up to three whole mountains into the Ashpit as "space stations". In deliberate imitation of Umbriel, the Deep Orcs are attempting to turn these into self-sufficient cities, but they're hampered by their reliance on interdimensionally transmitted energy, the difficulty in setting up a self-contained ecosystem (no parasitic Hist trees here) and the lack of gravity. Only time will tell if they succeed, but for now they work just fine for whaleship ports and navigation aids.
- **Snow-Throat** is perhaps the nation most similar to the real-world in terms of mundane technology - which makes it something of a bizarre outlier to the rest of Tamriel. Yes, it is impressive that the northern barbarians have made mechanical contraptions to plow and thresh their fields - but it would be simpler to just soul-trap an oxen to a plow and have it do the work itself. Magic-fearing barbarians, pah!

- Snow-Throat's technology is not industrial but hovers somewhere around the 1700s to 1800s. Necessity begets invention, and the citizens of the Commonwealth found themselves needing as sea giant raids along the north coast drew militias and reserves away, draining manpower when it was needed for planting and harvests. In response, the Nordic and Orcish smiths began to innovate, producing contraptions that allow fewer people to do more work - plows, threshing machines, and more. Canals with locks have been constructed along rivers, reducing or removing the need for portaging crews. Of course, if a Clever Man were to be at hand with a feather spell or potion to enhance strength, no one would complain - tow lines must be hauled, after all. Windmills and sawmills work more efficiently than before, and engineers have reworked roads and bridges to better bear the weight of the mammoth merchants who wander the countryside.

- Unfortunately, there is no one set standard across the Commonwealth for the construction of these devices. The smiths of Whiterun have settled on one standard for parts and production, Riften another, Ivarstead has it's own set of measures, Windhelm yet another, and the College of Old Winterhold, in their attempt to create a set standard, created _yet another_ competing standard. The Great Moot will occasionally hear arguments from proponents of one or another standard, yet has decided that it has no power over this.

- Alchemy, and what we might consider forms of chemistry, has become widely accepted and proliferated, in no small part because of the proliferation of crossbows and alchemical bolts in Snow-Throat, where it is sometimes said that children can operate a crank before they can walk. This cottage industry of bolt production has lead to advances in food preservation as well - frost salts to refrigerate food, dashes of herbs to sanitize water and stave off rot, clever treatments to drive away pests. Others have found ways to modify the soil in beneficial ways (and occasionally in harmful ways as well).

- However, these advancements have yet to spread far. Even inside Snow-Throat, some of these mechanical contraptions are limited in use outside of where they were designed - plows that excel in the plains of Whiterun struggle in the heavily rooted soils of Ilinalta Hold, for instance, to say nothing of Orsinium or Druadach. The barons of Rorikstead have rebuffed offers of sale, claiming that they have other ways to ensure bountiful harvests, and yet farther afield the soul-magic of foreigners dominates. Yet Snow-Throat continues - after all, while one may occasionally lose fingers to pulleys and belts, that's still a better deal than being doomed to the Fields of Regret.