Made up of eastern and central Skyrim and County Bruma, the Snow-Throat Commonwealth is populated by Nords, Orcs, Giants, and Dunmer living in what could be described as "radical grassroots democracy". The traditional aristocracy and nobility is gone, replaced by a system of moots, voting, and individual representation. Elected local moots govern towns and villages, elected Hold moots govern holds, and the elected Great Moot and elected Jarls and High King govern the nation - or at least, govern as much as the people will let them. Monasteries of voice-using Dragon Monks, Dragon-monks, and Dragons dot the landscape, wandering monks, mystics and hermits travel the wilderness, and militias of citizen-soldiers armed with alchemical crossbows protect the land from sea-giant raids, Falmer incursions, vampire attacks, and more.

Snow-Throat draws from early American history, especially the Articles of Confederation, when the federal government was weak and democracy was strong. The nation is one of the more developed technologically in the setting, but is still schizotech - Renaissance to pre-Industrial Revolution tech exists alongside Viking longships transported in canals, crossbow-armed militias comparable to the Marines of the Malazan setting and American minutemen, etc. Magically, Snow-Throat lags behind most other nations - while magic is far more accepted than it was in Skyrim, Snow-Throat's institutions are regarded as hidebound and traditional and the common mage unrefined. Religiously, the Commonwealth has a revived but very syncretic faith based largely off of the old Nordic pantheon, while the Giants hold mostly to their old ways and the Dragon Monks practice a bizarre form of neo-Ysmirism. Primary inspirations are early American history, Skyrim, and Malazan.
